Question (ID-1384761): Are there any good webhosting services suitable for a git/redmine installation? I'd like to roll my own server so I can have my projects available 24/7 but with more flexibility than one of the free providers like github can provide. Anyone have a good hosting service that includes shell access? I've been searching on google, but I get a weird spammy vibe from a lot of the places. 
 Answers (Total-7): #0 Do you want a Web hosting account or do you want to store a Git repository somewhere? There's a difference. If it's just hosting, you can get shared hosting anywhere for $5 or less per month. It's shared hosting and you may (rightly) be concerned about security. If so, VPS is a better option and starts at about $15-20/month for a (virtual) dedicated server that you have root access to. 

 But if you really are just after somewhere to host a Git repository I'd suggest looking into a specialist company. There are many variants upon Github. I've just started using Project Locker because the free version has SSL support, 500MB of space (that's a lot of source code even with revisions), up to 5 users and no limit on projects (many other free providers limit you to 1 project). It also has issue tracking (Trac) and Wiki tools. 

 Sure I could install all these on my own account but why bother? 

 Also, see Best git repository hosting for commercial project? 

 Some companies offer Redmine, such as SVN Repository (which is Subversion and Git). 
 #1 You can use a free BitNami Redmine cloud image in the Amazon Cloud. It includes Git integration out of the box and you can customize it as you fit (since it has full SSH access). The best part is that you can host it completely for free using the Amazon free tier . It would be a micro instance, which should be ok to get started or if you do not
have big performance needs. You may also want to checkout our BitNami Cloud Hosting service, which will allow you backups and monitoring for your instance (we also have a free Developer plan to match the one from AWS). 
 #2 For sake of completeness, there's Planio Redmine Hosting as well. We specialize in highly available Redmine &amp; Git/SVN hosting with super-friendly customer support. I may be biased, but telling by the number of clients with existing installations elsewhere who want to migrate to our platform - I think our guys are doing a pretty solid job :-) 
 #3 http://www.Unfuddle.com is awesome. Quick, easy, and great customer service. A small project is free. Great way to try it out. A mid-sized project is only $9 per month. This is what we're using on our project and could not be happier. 
 #4 If you want git hosting, take a look at http://git.or.cz/gitwiki/GitHosting ( GitHub , Gitorious and repo.or.cz seems most popular, with Unfuddle next in turn, according to current results of Git User's Survey 2009 ). 
 #5 I'm a bit late to the party but have you seen http://sourcerepo.com/ 

 This company does git/svn and redmine. This might be just what you are looking for.
Looks like $7/Month gets you everything you'll need. Which is quite cheap compared to alternatives like github. 
 #6 there are plenty of vps, vds servers where you can do such thing. it is question what linux distro you prefer. 
if you need something preinstalled then i would say that http://javanode.com has what you ask - git, redmine, jenkins, etc