Question (ID-947942): Advanced Python programming book like "Effective C++"? There are a lot of books out there for new programmers getting into Python . However, are there any books for people who are experienced both in programming and to some degree in Python that introduces advanced topics, subtleties, gotchas, and best practices in Python? 

 I'm thinking in terms of something like Effective C++ or Effective Java . 

 There's a number of topics that beginners don't care about, that people using Python for Serious Business TM want to know. For instance, tips for writing code that is both portable across platforms, and across different versions of Python. What standard library modules are broken, and what are the better alternatives? 
 Answers (Total-9): #0 I haven't read it yet myself, but John D. Cook recommends "Expert Python Programming " on his Endeavor blog. I am more than halfway through "Core Python", John's other recommendation. His choice was spot on. It's an excellent book. 

 I think so highly of John, his blog, and his work that his recommendations carry more weight with me. 
 #1 Bruce Eckel is writing a new book, Python 3 Patterns &amp; Idioms . It looks very promising. 

 You may be interested in the Python cookbook too. 
 #2 I think reading Python source code is also a good choice to have a deep insight into how Python actually works, since CPython implementation is quite clean and easy to read. 
 #3 I would strongly suggest Pro Python by Marty Alchin, the author of Pro Django . 
 #4 I can really recommend you 

 Core Python Programming by Wesley J. Chun 

 it's simple and advanced at the same time, very pleasantly written, covers the basics as well as good practises and a great bunch of advanced topics. 

 Greetings, 

 Tom 
 #5 I recommend this book. 

 Python Scripting for Computational Science Series: Texts in Computational Science and Engineering , Vol. 3 Langtangen, Hans Petter 3rd ed. 2008. Corr. 2nd printing, 2009, XXVI, 758 p. 62 illus., Hardcover ISBN: 978-3-540-73915-9 

 http://www.springer.com/math/cse/book/978-3-540-73915-9 
 #6 programming python - o'reilly 

 it covers topics where 'learning python' left. 

 it is more on using the python itself on projects rather than learning the core python syntax. 
 #7 Here is Python module of the week http://www.doughellmann.com/PyMOTW/contents.html page, written by Doug Hellmann.
I found it pretty useful to find out new stuff about Python, learn new modules and using as working examples. Only by viewing examples you can learn a lot about Python and his way. 
 #8 Who needs a book when you have SO-just my humble opinion 

 Why the down votes - this is the first place I look for any answer to a problem I am having. I bet I start 20 questions for every one I post. As I write the question the SO engine starts suggesting/listing questions that have similar content. Less than 5% of the time do I get all the way through the question and actually post it because the solution often turns up in the list. 

 As an aside I have been wondering how to make that list of questions even more relevant.