Question (ID-327776): Read the last lineof the file Imagine I have a file with 

 Xpto,50,30,60
Xpto,a,v,c
Xpto,1,9,0
Xpto,30,30,60 

 that txt file can be appended a lot of times and when I open the file I want only to get the values of the last line of the txt file... How can i do that on python? reading the last line? 

 Thanks 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 I think my answer from the last time this came up was sadly overlooked. :-) 

 
 If you're on a unix box,
 os.popen("tail -10 " +
 filepath).readlines() will probably
 be the fastest way. Otherwise, it 
 depends on how robust you want it to
 be. The methods proposed so far will
 all fall down, one way or another. 
 For robustness and speed in the most
 common case you probably want
 something like a logarithmic search:
 use file.seek to go to end of the file
 minus 1000 characters, read it in,
 check how many lines it contains, then
 to EOF minus 3000 characters, read in
 2000 characters, count the lines, then
 EOF minus 7000, read in 4000
 characters, count the lines, etc.
 until you have as many lines as you
 need. But if you know for sure that
 it's always going to be run on files
 with sensible line lengths, you may
 not need that. 
 
 You might also find some inspiration
 in the source code for the unix
 tail command. 
 
 #1 See the answer to this question: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/260273/most-efficient-way-to-search-the-last-x-lines-of-a-file-in-python . 
 #2 I prefer to treat file lines with 

 for Line in inFile: 

 last_one = Line.split(",")
 

 so there is any chance my for goes until the last Line and only split the last line of my file? 

 I need something very easy. 

 thanks 
 #3 f.seek( pos ,2) seeks to 'pos' relative to the end of the file.
try a reasonable value for pos then readlines() and get the last line. 

 You have to account for when 'pos' is not a good guess, i.e. suppose you choose 300, but the last line is 600 chars long! in that case, just try again with a reasonable guess, until you capture the entire line. (this worst case should be very rare) 
 #4 Not sure about a python specific implementation, but in a more language agnostic fashion, what you would want to do is skip (seek) to the end of the file, and then read each character in backwards order until you reach the line feed character that your file is using, usually a character with value 13. just read forward from that point to the end of the file, and you will have the last line in the file. 
 #5 is your file really so huge that you can't just read the whole file and discard all but the last line? KISS