Question (ID-3923280): Can you recommend a database schema migration tool that is not tied to a particular framework or ORM? I've used South migrations in the past, but am now looking for a database migration tool that is not tied to a particular framework or Object Relational Mapper (South is for Django). I need it simply for managing schema updates (and rollbacks) and nothing else. Various tools and applications use the same database, so I'd like a dedicated tool to manage the schema and not have it integrated with the ORM of one particular web-application that might use the shared DB. 

 Edit: To clarify, I don't need a tool that reads changes to models in an app and generates the schema updates for me. I want a tool that uses migrations and applies updates and rollbacks on request, but where I explicitly write the update and rollback actions myself. Basically a better managed, and slightly abstracted version of source ing .sql scripts to do schema upgrades. 

 Preferably Python-based, as that is what the team is familiar with, the tool needs to work with MySQL but would hopefully also have some abstraction for other RDBMS backends. 

 Obviously I could find a few myself, but I'd like to harness the experience of the community here to shortcut the process a little by gathering some "reviews" from personal experience using the tools in real world scenarios: 

 
 What are the good things about the solution? 
 What are the pitfalls and problems you've encountered with it? 
 Is it actively developed, does it have a good community, support etc? 
 

 So far I've found yoyo-migrations which looks promising, but no info from anyone using it. 
 Answers (Total-7): #0 You could consider Liquibase - it's java-based but migrations are defined in an XML DSL so no knowledge of java is required. 

 We haven't used it in anger but are currently evaluating it. 
 #1 Since you asked for python, im gonna do shameless self advertising: 

 http://flyingelephantsoftware.de/projects/locust/index.html 

 its written in python, but uses raw sql (so no abstraction). basically it just keeps track, which migrationscripts has been executed, but in many projects of mine, this is enough. 
 #2 It's unfortunate most of the migration libs are coupled to frameworks. I've ended up using enumerated .sql files because I didn't find anything useful when I started. I've since found, but haven't used http://code.google.com/p/sqlalchemy-migrate/ . It is tied to SQLAlchemy, but at least it's abstracted from other libs. 
 #3 I use sequel to do all my migrations, I use it for Java based and rails based so it is framework agnostic. 

 It has a great little DSL for migrations with up and down, and you can even do raw SQL if you like. 
 #4 why not writing a custom migration tool with python db api ? http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0249/ or use something similar to schema sync? http://schemasync.org/ 
 #5 South seems pretty functional. Have you looked at all under the covers to see if what it does (some library perhaps) could be extracted and wrapped around? It seems to be in Python, so it should work already. 

 Also, has anyone tried http://chronicdb.com 
 #6 Liquibase . :) Though it is Java based it can be executed on the command line as long as you have a JVM, and it is not coupled to any particular persistence framework. 

 You can use XML to describe your migrations in a DSL, but it also supports plain SQL files. We're really happy so far and I have started using it on my private pet project too.