Question (ID-2586274): Looking for a Python IDE with good support for libraries (Twisted) I'm looking for a Python IDE that can help me easily locate and manage and use the libraries on my system (Ubuntu). Specifically Twisted. 

 Code completion is important including the symbols I import. 

 (I've so far had a look at PyDev as well as OpenKomodo, but while both offer code completion for default Python concepts, I wasn't able to get either to import Twisted into my project and was thus getting reference errors.) 

 Usual disclaimer: I don't like EMACS or vi, please, nothing regarding those. 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 Using Wing IDE with Twisted discusses how to debug twisted using their IDE - although unfortunately WingWare is not free. 

 Are you sure you have given PyDev a fair look? It seems to be the most popular Python IDE, and I have always had good experiences with it in the past. 
 #1 eclipse + pydev seems to work well for me. 

 Just remember to right-click on the project and select Properties and make sure that your libraries are on the path. Sometimes this doesn't happen for easy_installed libraries. 
 #2 I've just downloaded the preview of netbeans and it seems to have done quite well so far. 

 It has detected inherited methods &amp; properties. I haven't had to add a single library reference in my project, so this seems to be the most fluid so far. 
 #3 Like Eclipse is primarily a Java IDE written in Java, you could try Eric which is a Python IDE written in Python. I have had some issues with it in the past but I really enjoy the ability to stop your code at a breakpoint and have access to the python console to manipulate your data or even to inject new functions. PyDev could really use a console like that. 
 #4 JetBrains PyCharm is a very interesting newcomer in the Python IDE space. Currently in preview, it already surpasses many of the other IDEs in terms of user-friendliness and features. 

 It features: 

 
 Code completion of any imported library 
 Good support for unit testing 
 Refactoring 
 Debugging 
 Version control integration 
 

 It's built on the same platform as IntelliJ IDEA which is a generally considered one of the best Java IDEs. 

 I have been using it myself in the last weeks and enjoyed it very much. It is not very buggy (for a preview release), just incomplete. 
 #5 for a small proyects Scribes . Otherwise Eclipse+pydev.