Question (ID-1974893): Do you know any mainstream desktop applications developed with Python and Qt? Hi
i'm developing a small prototype of a desktop application using Qt and Python because i would like to distribute it in a multiplatform way.
A friend of mine is annoying me on messenger because he claims that there are not known cool mainstream desktop apps developed with Qt and python technologies so, what i am doing, is just an exercise without future.
Do you know any cool apps developed in python+Qt?
thanks 
 Answers (Total-7): #0 there is a list of Python Qt apps in the Python Wiki . 

 for an example of a powerful app, the eric IDE uses Python-Qt 

 

 as for plain [usually not python] Qt, how about KDE ? 

 as for Python, its just a language... all Qt Apps look/feel the same no matter which language bindings you use. Can your friend tell the difference between your app and any native KDE app using Qt? 
 #1 Eric IDE , Python(x,y) and Spyder are all used in the Python community and use PyQT. Outside of the Python world, I know a handful of KDE's widgets are constructed with it -- for instance the printer configuration utility. 
 #2 Quantum GIS is a C++ Application which provides a Python Console as well as API for developing plugins. A rich set of plugins have been developed using PyQt for this application. 

 Bibus also uses Python but with wx-widgets for GUI elements. So you do not always have to use Qt. 

 Python + Qt provides an very fast means or rapidly developing working cross-platform GUI applications and I see no problems with this approach. 
 #3 There are plenty of applications on Ubuntu that use PyQT. Although I'd recommend checking out PySide . It's LGPL-licensed so you don't have to use the GPL for your code. 
 #4 Calibre - probably the most well featured book reader/organizer(Can read most formats, Converts beetween formats,looks up and downloads metadata). 
 #5 I'd like to comment from a user's perspective.
Although I use Python myself, I hate to installing dependency libraries and sometimes there are version incompatibility issues. If your software is general purpose and you want it to reach a large audience, I don't suggest you to use PyQt. 

 It is perfect for prototyping. It is also good for specialized software, because you will help deploy and do consulting with the software. 
 #6 The configuration UI for HP printers under linux uses PyQt and they're in the standard Ubuntu repositories.