Question (ID-2385855): Which is best in Python: urllib2, PycURL or mechanize? Ok so I need to download some web pages using Python and did a quick investigation of my options. 

 Included with Python: 

 urllib - seems to me that I should use urllib2 instead. urllib has no cookie support, HTTP/FTP/local files only (no SSL) 

 urllib2 - complete HTTP/FTP client, supports most needed things like cookies, does not support all HTTP verbs (only GET and POST, no TRACE, etc.) 

 Full featured: 

 mechanize - can use/save Firefox/IE cookies, take actions like follow second link, actively maintained (0.2.5 released in March 2011) 

 PycURL - supports everything curl does (FTP, FTPS, HTTP, HTTPS, GOPHER, TELNET, DICT, FILE and LDAP), bad news: not updated since Sep 9, 2008 (7.19.0) 

 New possibilities: 

 urllib3 - supports connection re-using/pooling and file posting 

 Deprecated (a.k.a. use urllib/urllib2 instead): 

 httplib - HTTP/HTTPS only (no FTP) 

 httplib2 - HTTP/HTTPS only (no FTP) 

 The first thing that strikes me is that urllib/urllib2/PycURL/mechanize are all pretty mature solutions that work well. mechanize and PycURL ship with a number of Linux distributions (e.g. Fedora 13) and BSDs so installation is a non issue typically (so that's good). 

 urllib2 looks good but I'm wondering why PycURL and mechanize both seem very popular, is there something I am missing (i.e. if I use urllib2 will I paint myself in to a corner at some point?). I'd really like some feedback on the pros/cons of these things so I can make the best choice for myself. 

 Edit: added note on verb support in urllib2 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 I think this talk (at pycon 2009), has the answers for what you're looking for (Asheesh Laroia has lots of experience on the matter). And he points out the good and the bad from most of your listing 

 
 Scrape the Web: Strategies for
programming websites that don't
expect it (Part 1 of 3)  
 Scrape the Web: Strategies for programming
websites that don't expect it (Part 2
of 3) 
 Scrape the Web: Strategies for
programming websites that don't
expect it (Part 3 of 3) 
 

 From the PYCON 2009 schedule: 

 
 Do you find yourself faced with
 websites that have data you need to
 extract? 
 Would your life be simpler if
 you could programmatically input data
 into web applications, even those
 tuned to resist interaction by bots? 
 
 We'll discuss the basics of web
 scraping, and then dive into the
 details of different methods and where
 they are most applicable. 
 
 You'll leave
 with an understanding of when to apply
 different tools, and learn about a
 "heavy hammer" for screen scraping
 that I picked up at a project for the
 Electronic Frontier Foundation. 
 
 Atendees should bring a laptop, if
 possible, to try the examples we
 discuss and optionally take notes. 
 

 Update: 
Asheesh Laroia has updated his presentation for pycon 2010 

 
 PyCon 2010: Scrape the Web:
Strategies for programming websites
that don't expected it 

 * My motto: "The website is the API."
* Choosing a parser: BeautifulSoup, lxml, HTMLParse, and html5lib.
* Extracting information, even in the face of bad HTML: Regular expressions, BeautifulSoup, SAX, and XPath.
* Automatic template reverse-engineering tools.
* Submitting to forms.
* Playing with XML-RPC
* DO NOT BECOME AN EVIL COMMENT SPAMMER.
* Countermeasures, and circumventing them:
  o IP address limits
  o Hidden form fields
  o User-agent detection
  o JavaScript
  o CAPTCHAs 
* Plenty of full source code to working examples:
  o Submitting to forms for text-to-speech.
  o Downloading music from web stores.
  o Automating Firefox with Selenium RC to navigate a pure-JavaScript service. 
* Q&amp;A; and workshopping
* Use your power for good, not evil. 
 
 
 #1 
 urllib2 is found in every Python install everywhere, so is a good base upon which to start. 
 PycURL is useful for people already used to using libcurl, exposes more of the low-level details of HTTP, plus it gains any fixes or improvements applied to libcurl. 
 mechanize is used to persistently drive a connection much like a browser would. 
 

 It's not a matter of one being better than the other, it's a matter of choosing the appropriate tool for the job. 
 #2 Don't worry about "last updated". HTTP hasn't changed much in the last few years ;) 

 urllib2 is best (as it's inbuilt), then switch to mechanize if you need cookies from Firefox. mechanize can be used as a drop-in replacement for urllib2 - they have similar methods etc. Using Firefox cookies means you can get things from sites (like say StackOverflow) using your personal login credentials. Just be responsible with your number of requests (or you'll get blocked). 

 PycURL is for people who need all the low level stuff in libcurl. I would try the other libraries first. 
 #3 Urllib2 only supports HTTP GET and POST, there might be workarounds, but If your app depends on other HTTP verbs, you will probably prefer a different module. 
 #4 Python requests is also a good candidate for HTTP stuff. It has a nicer api IMHO, an example http request from their offcial documentation: 

 &gt;&gt;&gt; r = requests.get('https://api.github.com', auth=('user', 'pass'))
&gt;&gt;&gt; r.status_code
204
&gt;&gt;&gt; r.headers['content-type']
'application/json'
&gt;&gt;&gt; r.content
...
 
 #5 Every python library that speaks HTTP has its own advantages. 

 Use the one that has the minimum amount of features necessary for a particular task. 

 Your list is missing at least urllib3 - a cool third party HTTP library which can reuse a HTTP connection, thus speeding up greatly the process of retrieving multiple URLs from the same site.