Question (ID-1381218): Learning to program, is python right for me? I thought I'd start learning a real programming language from scratch. I can manage to code in C++, but I haven't been brushing up on my C++ skills at all. 

 This time I'm teaching myself. And I've decided on python . Is it the right language for me? I'm just being an enthusiastic kid, and I'm not learning for any strict purpose (rather than just programming for the heck of it ;) 

 One more question on the sly, does python support OOP? 

 Should I start using a thirdparty IDE straightaway or shall I stick to IDLE? 
 Answers (Total-13): #0 
 Is it the right language for me? 
 

 It is. 

 
 does python support OOP? 
 

 It does. 

 EDIT 

 I would suggest you to take a look at Google App Engine . While is not meant as a Python tutorial I think it is much better to learn and see your work "live" than just creating castles in the air. 

 It is also very easy to create a Hello World ap p. 

 If you are starting to learn how to program this would be a good 2nd task to do ( rather than first ) 
 #1 Python is an excellent beginners language. That's why I use it! :) 

 The link above is excellent if you feel you're advanced beginner with you C++ or a quick learner. Think like a Computer Scientist is another that starts at a much lower level. And don't forget The Tutorial . 

 Personally, I find I think in Python better than I do any any other language. It's a great experience when you get into a problem and you're coding away and you suddenly realize the bottleneck isn't your head, it's your fingers. With Java, I never made it to that point. With Ruby, I got close, but it never really clicked. With Python, I was there in less than a week (less than 8 hours of dedicated coding, since I only get an hour or so a day). Now, my 45-50 WPM typing speed just can't keep up with my brain's code output for most of the time I'm coding. 
 #2 Python is a great language to learn. It has all the language features required to practice OOP, but is flexible enough to be used procedurally or functionally as well. While some folks are turned off by the use of indentation to structure your code, it is actually a boon when learning since it forces you to keep clean formatting of your code and teaches you to write code in a readable fashion. 

 Another advantage of learning with Python instead of a traditional compiled language is that you can play with your code interactively. You can run the Python interpreter and poke your objects to get a feel for how your code works. This sort of experimentation is a great learning tool. 

 Python also has a lot of library support built-in, so chunks of functionality that could require many lines of code in other languages are often trivial to implement in Python. 

 As your skill level grows, you'll find Python continues to be a useful tool in your toolbox for all sorts of programming tasks: web development, simple scripting, or desktop applications. 

 Good luck, and have fun! 
 #3 Python will be good for this. So get busy . :) 

 It is object-oriented , but not as strictly as others . 
 #4 G'day, 

 For Python you might like to look at the excellent book "Dive into Python" by Mark Pilgrim. 

 There's a free version available as well. 

 HTH 

 cheers, 
 #5 I had been doing mostly C++ for a few years when I needed to write a script for something. I decided to do this in Python, and my am I glad I did! It really struck me how obvious the Python syntax is (at least for the most part). I was basically doing what sounded like the reasonable thing to do - and mostly that was correct. 

 So - learning Python is plain fun, and is surely a nice pick. Whether it is the right for you depends on what you want to do, but it sounds like you just want to play around with something. Having Python in your toolbox at a later time when you maybe work with some other language will always come in handy. So I'd say go for it! And good luck :-) 
 #6 I would suggest C#. If you have some experience with C++, C# should be pretty easy to pick up. Python works too, but I'd say maybe save it for later because it's more of a functional language with dynamic typing (meaning the variable datatypes are determined at runtime, not compile time), so it's more deviant from 'traditional' languages such as C# and Java. 
 #7 I think every programmer should be well enough at "C" and i believe C is a real programming language. 
If you are looking for OOP.. then C++,python,C# may be your choices. 
I personally prefer compiled languages over interpreted ones because you can closely follow what is going on and they are faster as well. 
 #8 Choose the language that is common with your peers, as they will be of great support for you when you learn. 

 Alternatively, learn Python and show them who The Real Man is. :) 
 #9 NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO. 

 Just kidding it's an amazing language. And you are awesome. 
 #10 If you want to learn new language then Python is a great language to learn and use. Very practical. 

 If you want to learn the art of programming, then i suggest the book How To Design Programs 
It uses language called scheme. The complete programming environment is provided. It is called Racket . After studying this book, you can pickup any language you want. 

 There's also famous book SICP . But it is not for the faint of heart :) 
 #11 Java...with out a doubt my answer would be Java. C# would be a close second but Java is more widely used especially in the academic and open source world. 
 #12 Python is probably the best answer for you. You'll be able to learn many programming and software engineering paradigms with it. Designing, programming, testing, refactoring, and documenting software with Python is easy, fast and enjoyable (just ask around ;-)