Question (ID-2912944): Simple multilingual CMS? I have been searching for a while now for a dead simple CMS with multi-language support. The ideal candidate is very lean and offers the possibility to set up different languages for different domains. It's OK if the language support is provided by a plugin/extension. 

 For example I want example.com to point to English and example.fr should be French. With different URI-mappings for SEO. 

 It can be developed in either of PHP, Ruby or Python and has to be open source. 

 Any tips? 
Thank you 

 EDIT / MORE DETAILS 
What I want is a CMS that is as simple to use and grasp for a client as Radiant is, but with tabs on each resource that can translate articles to different languages. 

 Languages have to be able to use multiple domains, one for each language. 

 I want to easily use the same article for more than one language as well as have articles (e.g. blog posts or news stories) that are only connected to one language. 

 The CMS should be very light in core functionality (like Radiant, unlike Drupal/Joomla) but be easily extendable with plugins. 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 FrogCMS is described as the PHP version of Radiant. I didn't use it myself but it looks pretty simple. The drawback is that its development seems to be stalled. 

 From my experience I'd recommend you to try out Silverstripe . 
 #1 In my experience: Wordpress + wpml 
 #2 I suggest SilverStripe CMS 

 http://www.silverstripe.org 

 And for the support of different domains take a look at the Subsites Module for SSCMS 
 http://doc.silverstripe.org/modules:subsites 

 The SSCMS is based on Sapphire Framework, it is very easy to extend and customize the functionality. 
 #3 I've looked for a PHP based CMS which supports multilingual text content, but I couldn't find solution that meets my needs. 

 From my experience I suggest to use Django CMS it is very easy if you know Django basics and it supports mulitlanguage content nicely. 
 #4 You can go for three times award-winning , the Joomla . 

 
 Joomla is an award-winning content
 management system (CMS), which enables
 you to build Web sites and powerful
 online applications. Many aspects,
 including its ease-of-use and
 extensibility, have made Joomla the
 most popular Web site software
 available. Best of all, Joomla is an
 open source solution that is freely
 available to everyone. 
 
 #5 It's not a prepackaged CMS but Globalize http://github.com/joshmh/globalize2 gives you great power and flexibility in internationalizing a Ruby on Rails application.