Question (ID-2021803): What linux distro is better suited for Python web development? Which linux distro is better suited for Python web development? 

 Background: 

 I currently develop on Windows and it's fine, but I am looking to move my core Python development to Linux. I'm sure most any distro will work fine, but does anyone have any reasons to believe one distro is better than another? 
 Answers (Total-7): #0 Largely distribution won't matter, as Python is present and largely self sufficient on virtually all Linux distributions. 

 If you're wanting to focus on development, I'd recommend Ubuntu. Ubuntu is arguably one of the most fully featured "ready for the user" distributions that makes system administration a snap, so you can focus on the development tasks you want to tackle. 

 If you have a Linux environment that's a target for your code (like say, RedHat or something), then go with the desktop distribution that matches your target environment (like, say, Fedora for RedHat, Gentoo for Gentoo, Ubuntu for Ubuntu Server, etc.) 

 Otherwise, all of them are suitable. 
 #1 You distribution should have Python 2.6. Otherwise it's a matter of choice. 

 One advice: Never ever install anything as root (eg. python setup.py install ). Only install things with your distribution's package manager and use virtualenv as a user to install other packages. 

 Ubuntu has a virtualenv package and it can even be used without being installed. 
 #2 I use RHEL and have been very happy, so from that I would say Fedora would be fine. I use Debian at home, and it's great (headless though, so no web there). 

 That said, I think you should probably just pick one based on what your company uses, or any number of non-Python reasons. I don't think you are going to find Python tool availability an issue with any Linux distribution. 
 #3 Most major distributions will include Python and Apache, so it's really just a matter of choice. If you're new to Linux, I'd suggest either Ubuntu or Fedora. Both are great for new users and have excellent community support. 
 #4 As the other answers have mentioned so far, the Python 2.6 interpreter will be available on all recent Linux distribution releases. That shouldn't influence your choice. 

 However, your choice of IDE may eliminate some possibilities. You should make sure the distribution you select has a package for the latest version of your IDE, and that it is updated often enough. 

 As an example, I like to use Eclipse with PyDev for developing Python apps in either OS, but Ubuntu's official repositories had only Eclipse 3.2 (from 2006) until October of last year, when they finally updated to 3.5 in the latest distribution. 
 #5 I am working with Python on Cento 5.4 and Fedora 12 and I am very happy. 

 I also use Eclipse IDE for python and other languages without having any major issues. 
 #6 Any desktop distribution like Ubuntu, OpenSUSE, Fedora, ... is OK, But if you want to always have the latest versions, I recommend ArchLinux.