Question (ID-904212): Where can I find Python tutorials aimed at people who are already programmers? I'm a reasonably skilled programmer, and I'm interested in branching out into some new languages -- python, specifically -- but frankly I do NOT want to go through a tutorial that assumes I know nothing about programming. I want a tutorial -- again, preferably for python -- that assumes I'm just unfamiliar with the language itself and describes the ways I can use the language to solve problems. 

 Does such a beast exist? I mean, other than the Python wiki ? 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 Yes, you should look at Dive Into Python : 

 
 Dive Into Python is a Python book for
 experienced programmers. You can buy a
 printed copy, read it online, or
 download it in a variety of formats.
 It is also available in multiple
 languages. 
 
 #1 Gosh, this is a popular question on SO. Check out these previous discussions: 

 32 answers here to What did you use to teach yourself python? 

 13 answers to How to Learn Python 

 13 more for What is the best python book for experienced programmers? 

 and 20 for Best online resource to learn Python? 

 And you can find even more by typing "Python tutorial" in the SO search box. 
 #2 I recently wrote a paper for Linux Magazine (France) on learning Python, and I had to ask myself the same question and do a thorough research on this. My recommendation is to check the sources below in the following order: 

 
 Instant Python 
 Learn Python in 10 minutes 
 The official tutorial (to be skimmed through) 
 Building Skills in Python: A Programmer's Introduction to Python , by Stack Overflow contributor S. Lott 
 Dive into Python is quite good too, but is limited to the now quite old Python 2.3. 
 
 #3 I will also recomment you to read the python cookbook, a really nice book full of recipes that will help you on several tasks. 
 #4 I would suggest the following Books, these are all for Python 2 

 1). "A Byte of Python" 

 2). "Python 101 -- Introduction to Python" 

 3). "Building Skills in Python --- A Programmer's Introduction to Python" 

 4). "Python 201 -- (Slightly) Advanced Python Topics" 

 5). "How to Think Like a Computer Scientist ---Learning with Python 2nd Edition" 

 6). "Python Programming" 
 #5 If you intend to learn Python 3 instead of Python 2.x (the difference is not large), you should take a look at Dive Into Python 3 . It's currently being written (by Mark Pilgrim) and is around 50% complete.