Question (ID-6465692): Python IDE for teaching? I am a student in a year 11 Computer Science class. Previously having taught only Visual Basic, my teacher is looking for a language and IDE to teach the class with that is cross-platform and is easy to learn, so I suggested Python to him for the language. 

 However, he would also like to teach with an IDE with it that includes a form builder in addition to the typical functions of an IDE (editor, project management, code completion, debugging, etc.). Having only ever developed with a text editor (usually nano ) and a relevant compiler, I know next to nothing about IDEs and what would be good to use. 

 I've also realised that Python has bindings for a multitude of graphical toolkits, of which one is probably chosen for use 'behind-the-scenes' in each IDE's form builder, so that is certainly another thing to consider. 

 Could anyone suggest a free, open source IDE for Python that would fit my class' needs, and would be able to run on Windows, Mac OS X and Linux-based operating systems at least? 

 -- 

 For those who recommend that plain console programming is the best start for beginners, I agree! If I were the teacher, I'd direct my students straight over to the Python console that is already installed on the computers and start teaching some programming not tainted by the issues of GUI programming. However, I would still like to find an IDE for him in case he says that he has to follow the curriculum strictly and needs to teach GUI programming with an IDE/form builder. 
 Answers (Total-9): #0 
 PyDev is a Python IDE for Eclipse,
 which may be used in Python, Jython
 and IronPython development. 
 

 Reference: PyDev 

 Also you can use PySide - it includes GUI programming 

 Update: 

 So, as I searched around, I found some Python IDEs with integrated gui builder, such as: 

 Visual Tkinter Python IDE 

 Monkey Studio 

 and other ones (please look at the bottom of the page at the section: IDEs with integrated gui builder ) 
 #1 You have to try PyScripter : 

 
 Fast IDE 
 Very small memory foot-print 
 Intuitive interface 
 Supports code-completion and remote-debugging 
 Free &amp; it's open-source! 
 
 #2 First of all, to get started with a new programming language console programs are much easier since you don't have to work with a - usually more or less complicated - GUI toolkit. 

 Then a nice text editor like GVim is usually enough for python - however, I'd never use something like nano that doesn't even have syntax highlighting. 
 #3  Wing IDE 101 is free scaled down Python IDE designed for use in teaching introductory programming classes. It omits many features found in Wing IDE Professional and makes simplifications appropriate for beginners.The OS X version requires an X11 Server. 
 #4 emacs Python Mode might be a good , can be a bit confusing at the beginning but eventually you will like it :) 

 But if you really want a IDE with a GUI Eric might be a nice one 

 Eclipse and Netbeans as well supports for Python.. 

 Happy Coding :) 
 #5 try working with these editors from start. will be beneficial afterwords. 
emacs 
kate - linux 
eclipse 
 #6 I would recommend IDLE . It is pretty basic but still features a debugger, syntax highlighting and is cross-platform. 
 #7 Aptana Studio IDE + wxGlade GUI builder 
 #8 How about PyCharm ? Classroom licence is free, and includes key, that can be used on countless PyCharm installations, so students can take it home as well (But it's not open-source). 

 And as for GUI - Glade.