Question (ID-130061): Book and tutorial recommedations for Django 1.0 Please share your book or tutorial recommendations for the latest release (1.0) of Django. 
 Answers (Total-11): #0 The obvious place to start is the The Django Book . It's available free online and a print copy came out last year. 

 If you are new to Django I'd definitely recommend working through it. I didn't take me too long and I came out the other end with what felt like - and still feels like - a good understanding of Django. 

 There are two versions available. The print version - which is also available online - says: 

 
 To the extent possible, this book covers Django 0.96 and higher. We've tried to write things in a forward-compatible way. 
 

 So there may be some 1.0 gotchas. However, the online version allows readers to leave comments so hopefully they will point out the more egregious incompatibilities. 

 Alternatively, you can use the new edition of the book , which is written for 1.0 but is not yet finished. 
 #1 If you prefer screencasts to written documentation, there is a new serie of tutorials "Django From The Ground Up" on This Week in Django . 
 #2 Practical Django Projects looks to be a little more in-depth and project-centric than the official Django Book . 

 The author 's notes about it might be of interest to you. 
 #3 Pro Django covers the 1.0 release. 
 #4 2nd editions of The Definitive Guide to Django and Practical Django Projects are available now. 

 The first editions were available when Django 1.0 was stable. This time we have books for 1.1, but not the stable release of Django 1.1 :P 
 #5 Besides the Django book, start here: http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ . 

 Then, if you find something weird, look at the Google Group Django users . 

 Finally, as last resort look directly at the code. Unlike other frameworks, I like Django very much because of their architecture and good code. 
 #6 I'd read through James Bennett's blog , whilst a lot of stuff applies to older versions of Django it's invaluable for getting a feel for writing good Django code. 
 #7 Book is too old for 1.0 version, but it can give some point to start from. I recommend you read django-users google group, subscribe to community weblog (there's TONS of information), and you're always welcome on irc channel. 

 All resources can be found here http://www.djangoproject.com/community/ 
 #8 It takes quite some time to get a book published. I don't believe there are any Django 1.0 books out yet. However Python Web Development with Django will cover Django 1.0 when it's released. 
 #9 Do NOT get the current edition of Practical Django Projects. It much of it was made obsolete by the 1.0 release of Django. People trying to work through the book often end up to posting questions to the mailing list because they can't get the sample code to work. 

 It's a good book, but definitely not the one to get as a tutorial just yet. Hopefully that will be addressed in future editions. 
 #10 I love Django 1.0 Website Development and would highly recommend it. It takes you through the creation of a social bookmarking site, and still manages to have a somewhat reference style. I still refer back to it from time to time and plan to read it cover to cover again.