Question (ID-3086467): Confused, are languages like python, ruby single threaded? unlike say java? (for web apps) I was reading how Clojure is 'cool' because of its syntax + it runs on the JVM so it is multithreaded etc. etc. 

 Are languages like ruby and python single threaded in nature then? (when running as a web app). 

 What are the underlying differences between python/ruby and say java running on tomcat? 

 Doesn't the web server have a pool of threads to work with in all cases? 
 Answers (Total-11): #0 Both Python and Ruby have full support for multi-threading. There are some implementations (e.g. CPython, MRI, YARV) which cannot actually run threads in parallel, but that's a limitation of those specific implementations, not the language. This is similar to Java, where there are also some implementations which cannot run threads in parallel, but that doesn't mean that Java is single-threaded. 

 Note that in both cases there are lots of implementations which can run threads in parallel: PyPy, IronPython, Jython, IronRuby and JRuby are only few of the examples. 

 The main difference between Clojure on the one side and Python, Ruby, Java, C#, C++, C, PHP and pretty much every other mainstream and not-so-mainstream language on the other side is that Clojure has a sane concurrency model. All the other languages use threads, which we have known to be a bad concurrency model for at least 40 years. Clojure OTOH has a sane update model which allows it to not only present one but actually multiple sane concurrency models to the programmer: atomic updates, software transactional memory, asynchronous agents, concurrency-aware thread-local global variables, futures, promises, dataflow concurrency and in the future possibly even more. 
 #1 Most languages don't define single or multithreading. Usually, that is left up to the libraries to implement. 

 That being said, some languages are better at it than others. CPython, for instance, has issues with interpreter locking during multithreading, Jython (python running on the JVM) does not. 

 Some of the real power of Clojure (IMO) is that it runs on the JVM. You get multithreading and tons of libraries for free. 
 #2 Certainly the webserver will have a pool of threads. That's only outside the control of your program. Those threads are used to handle HTTP requests. Each HTTP request is handled in a separate thread and the thread is released back to pool when the associated HTTP response is finished. If the webserver doesn't have such a pool, it would have been extremely slow in serving. 

 Whether a programming language is singlethreaded or multithreaded dependens on the possibility to programmatically spawn new threads using the language in question. If that isn't possible, then the language is singlethreaded, for example PHP. As far as I can see, both Ruby and Python supports multithreading. 
 #3 CPython has a Global Interpreter Lock which can reduce the performance of multi-threaded code in Python. The net effect, in some cases, is that threads can't actually run simultaneously because of locking contention. Not all Python implementations use a GIL so this may not apply to JPython, IronPython or other implementations. 

 The language itself does support threading and other asynchronous operations. The python libraries can also support threading internally without exposing it directly to the Python interpreter. 

 If you've heard anything negative about Python and threading (or that it doesn't support it), it is probably someone encountering a situation where the GIL is causing a bottleneck.. 
 #4 A confused question with a lot of confused answers... 

 First, threading and concurrent execution are different things. Python supports threads just fine; it doesn't support concurrent execution in any real-world implementation. (In all serious implementations, only one VM thread can execute at a time; the many attempts to decouple VM threads have all failed.) 

 Second, this is irrelevant for web apps. You don't need Python backends to execute concurrently in the same process . You spawn separate processes for each backend, which can then each handle requests in parallel because they're not tied together at all. 

 Using threads for web backends is a bad idea. Why introduce the perils of threading--locking, race conditions, deadlocks--to something inherently embarrassingly parallel? It's much safer to tuck each backend away in its own isolated process, avoiding the potential for all of these problems. 

 (There are advantages to sharing memory space--it saves memory, by sharing static code--but that can be solved without threads.) 
 #5 The short answer is yes, they are single threaded. 

 The long answer is it depends. 

 JRuby is multithreaded and can be run in tomcat like other java code. MRI (default ruby) and Python both have a GIL (Global Interpreter Lock) and are thus single threaded. 

 The way it works for web servers is further complicated by the number of available server configurations. For most ruby applications there are (at least) two levels of servers, a proxy/static file server like nginx and then the ruby app server. 

 Nginx does not use threads like apache or tomcat, it uses non-blocking events (and I think forked worker processes). This allows it to deal with higher levels of concurrency than would be allowed with the overhead and scheduling inefficiencies of native threads. 

 The various ruby apps servers also work in different ways to get high throughput and concurrency without threads. Thin uses libev and the asynchronous evented model like Nginx. Mongrel uses a round-robin pool of worker processes. Unicorn uses native Unix IPC (select on a socket) to load balance to a pool of forked processes through one master proxy socket. 

 Threads are only one way to address concurrency. Multiple processes and evented models are a different approach that ties in well with the Unix base. This is fundamentally different from the way Java treats the world. 
 #6 
 A few interpreted programming
 languages such as CPython and Ruby
 support threading, but have a
 limitation that is known as a Global
 Interpreter Lock (GIL). The GIL is a
 mutual exclusion lock held by the
 interpreter that prevents the
 interpreter from concurrently
 interpreting the applications code on
 two or more threads at the same time,
 which effectively limits the
 concurrency on multiple core systems. 
 

 from wikipedia Thread 
 #7 Ruby 

 The Ruby Interpreter is single threaded, which is to say that several of its methods are not thread safe. 

 In the Rails world, this single-thread has mostly been pushed to the server. So, you'll see nginx running with a pool of mongrel servers, each of which has an interpreter in memory, processes 1 request at a time, and in its own thread. 

 Passenger, running "ruby enterprise" brings the concept of garbage collection and some thread safety into Rails, and it's nice. 

 Still work to be done in Rails on this area, but it's getting there slowly -- but in general, the idea is to have multiple services and servers. 
 #8 How to untangle the knots in al those threads... 

 Clojure did not invent threading, however it has particularly strong support for it with Software Transactional Memory, Atoms, Agents, parallel map operations, ... 

 All other have accumulated threading support. Ruby is a special case as it has green threads in some implementations which are a kind of software emulated threads and do not use all the cores. 1.9 will put this to rest. 

 Regarding web servers, no they do not always work multithreaded, apache has traditionally ran as a flock of daemons which are a pool of separate single threaded processes. Now currently there are more options to run apache servers. 

 To summarize all modern languages support threading in one form or another. 

 The newer languages like scala and clojure are adding specific support to improve working with multiple threads without explicit locking as this has traditionally be the great pitfall of multithreading. 
 #9 Yes Ruby and Python can handle multi-threading, but for many cases (web) is better to rely on the threads generated by the http requests from the client to the server. Even if you generate many threads on a same application to low the runtime cost or to handle many task at time, in a web application case that's usually too much time, no one will wait happily more than some fractions of a second for the response of your application in a single page, it's more wise to use AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript And XML) techniques: make sure the design of your web shows up rapidly, and make an asynchronous insertion of those hard-coding things later. 

 That does not mean that multi-threading is useless for web! It's highly recommended to low the charge of your server if you want to run recursive-complicated-hardcore-applications (not for a website, I mean), but what that thing return must end in files or in databases, so then could be softly served by a http response. 
 #10 Reading these answers here... A lot of them try to sound smarter than they really are imho (im mostly talking about Ruby related stuff as thats the one i'm most familiar with).
In fact, JRuby is currently the only Ruby implementation that supports true concurrency. On JVM Ruby threads are mapped to OS native threads, without GIL interfering. So its totally correct to say that Ruby is not multithreaded.
In 1.8.x Ruby is actually run inside one OS thread, and while you do have the fake feeling of concurrency with green threads, then in reality GIL will pretty much prevent you from having true concurrency.
In Ruby 1.9 this changed a bit, as now a Ruby process can have many OS threads attached to it (plus the green threads), but again GIL will totally destroy the point and become the bottleneck. 

 In practice, from a regular webapp standpoint, it should not matter much if its single or multithreaded. The problem mostly arises on the server side anyhow and it mostly is a matter of scaling technique difference.