Question (ID-3951613): Learning Python Exercise I have taken it upon myself to learn python. As it is my second language is has not been that hard to get the hang of. I am looking for some simple python projects to undertake so I can better learn the syntax of the language in general. I would specifically like to learn the syntax of arrays, lists, and dictionaries. 

 

 Edit:
I cant say that one of your answers are right or wrong but between all of you i have alot of material! Thanks everyone :D 

 ps I particularly liked Google's Python Class 
 Answers (Total-9): #0 Google's Python class has a bunch of projects you can work on. 
 #1 The Python Challenge has been by far the coolest exploratory stuff I've done with Python. 

 Take your time working through the problems - it's worth it. 
 #2 Python Koans is a good interactive tutorial that covers basic syntax and advanced concepts. 
 #3 I would highly recommend the following e-book for learning Python. It covers several different programming paradigms and is a very good introduction to Python in general. 

 www.greenteapress.com/thinkpython/thinkCSpy.pdf 

 If you are already familiar with programming in general then Dive into Python is an unbeatable resource for getting the foundation of the language fast. 

 I have read both of the above and found them to be very helpful. 
 #4 You can try pyschools.com 
There are many small exercises categorized into different topics. Quite a fun way to learn how to program. 
 #5 Sorry to state the obvious, but why not read a good book or two, like: 

 Learning Python: Powerful Object-Oriented Programming 

 If you like more of a learn as you go approach, there's always the venerable: 

 Python Cookbook 
 #6 Steve Lott's Building Skills In Python is great. He's prominent on this site, too. 
 #7 Also in line with the Project Euler answer already provided, I'd recommend looking into some Code Kata. I generally go through these as part of learning any new language, and here's a link to several good ones: 

 http://codingdojo.org/cgi-bin/wiki.pl?KataCatalogue 

 Also a Stack Overflow question discussing Kata: 

 http://stackoverflow.com/questions/44533/your-favorite-code-kata 
 #8 A usual response to such things is Project Euler . Not necessarily special to python, but all those problems are solveable with python, and by working on them, you especially learn a lot of things that make Python special.