Question (ID-166468): Is it worthwhile to write a programming tutorial book? I have written an introductory Python tutorial and I'm working on one for wxPython . My Python tutorial was used at a college for a programming introduction class. 

 I know the answer is probably "if you want to", but I'm curious to know if I should take the time to formalize my tutorials into a book format, most likely as an ebook. I don't know enough to compete with the "big boys" of publishing but I think the format would be better structured and easier to learn if it was in a book style. I especially don't expect to make any money with it, though I wouldn't mind it :-). 

 However, I don't want to waste my time doing something that ultimately won't be of much use to people. I know there are many tutorials and books available, especially for these two topics. Is there room for another set of beginner books? 

 

 Update For those who are interested/curious, I have been working on the book and have drafted several chapters. The web site is http://python-ebook.blogspot.com . Comments are welcome. 
 Answers (Total-14): #0 I would say "definitely yes". You have very little to lose and a lot to gain.
Helping others, recognition, improving your writing skills, your teaching skills...
Even the research you do for the paper "forces" you to learn things you probably wouldn't research on your own.
So yeah.. go ahead. 

 Oh and.. open a blog too. 
 #1 Good beginner books are rare. If you can make them encouraging, filled with useful examples, building a foundation towards a real application in the end it surely will be great value. 

 It will also make you learn a lot of things you didn't know at first. Writing a book (or anything seriously) about a topic is one of the best ways to really learn about it. 
 #2 No, it's not worth it to write a book. 

 Asking if writing a book is worthwile is like asking if running a marathon is worthwhile. Asking if writing a software development book is worthwhile is like asking if running a triathlon is worthwhile. 

 Just to lay it out in black and white: the income from writing for publication is worse than it's ever been, with the book market shrinking, the magazines all but dead, and a community that has turned away from long explanations. 

 In the 90s, I justified writing as a marketing expense, as a loss-leader for generating consulting gigs. In the past decade, my technical blogging has generated leads at least an order of magnitude more efficiently than writing for publication. 

 From a monetary standpoint, writing for publication in the software development market is not a rational activity. The only reasons to do it are because (a) you really, really like to write and (b) you think your writing might be of some help to people who you don't and won't ever know and that's something that you're willing to sacrifice for. 

 Does this discourage you? If so, you're welcome. If instead you're saying 'screw you, Mr. Books-Magazines-Conferences-For-20-years, I'll kick your ass' then stop asking for permission and get to writing. 
 #3 There are some good begginer's books. Not many of them though. And even that Programmers Don't Read Books , I find good tutorial-like books very handful. When I sit at my PC and code, it's faster to browse python.org/doc then take the book itself from shelve. 

 That's why a good-written book, with well-thought examples is so rare and worthy. 

 For a beginner-level it's actually much more useful then a site full of URLs with tutorials. As beginners usually don't really know what they look for, they just wanna start somehow. 
 #4 I agree with what's be posted so far and wanted to add that the "big boys" of publishing got started somewhere and most likely it's right where you are now. Write your e-book, support it with a blog and in time you will know enough to compete. If you do it with a particular flair or in a way that some find easier or more useful then all the better. 

 Good luck and I'll be waiting for my signed copy when it goes to print. 
 #5 I say emphatically yes for the following: 

 I have not gotten a concept when presented one way, yet it clicked when presented another, you may offer a different perspective that clicks with others. IE you will be helping others. 

 I find that when researching to post items that I learn a tremendous amount. From a selfish standpoint YOU will be a better programmer for going through the process. IE you will be helping yourself. 

 WIN, WIN 

 As others have pointed out there are other benefits like peer recognition and wealth, just don’t count on them as much as the first two items above… 
 #6 I just finished reading A Byte Of Python , an e-book aimed at beginners. 
I've tried many different books and e-books before, including some from O'Reilly publishing. 
This one was the first one that explained things clearly for me, and in my kind of pace. 

 So don't be intimidated by the large offering that's out there, I'm sure you have a unique way of teaching and explaining things, and it might be just what some people are looking for. 

 One request though: please release it under some open license like the Creative Commons , and encourage people to email you with faults and fixes for your book. 
The nicest things are born through collaboration. 
 #7 My advice would be to ask yourself "What will my book offer that others do not" If you believe that you have an angle or approach that unique and helpful then I would say go for it. But if you struggle to answer that question then your effort would likely be overshadowed by the wash of all the other material on the subject. 
 #8 The ability to write a good book is precious on itself. If you will manage to write a good one it will help you regardless of success and popularity it will enjoy. If your book will not be that great it will still help you to gain experience to write a better one. 

 There are plenty of IT books around. However a number of readable books is really small. We have plenty of useless and boring ones but only a few worth reading. 

 A good book for beginners is especially valuable. Nowadays When you already know a lot on the topic you're looking for advanced sources of materials and the books are not necessarily one of them. 

 On the other hand a beginner is very likely to grab a book and it is very important that this book should be both helpful, enlightening, fun and easy to read. 

 Obviously the best books are written on the subject you're good with. However even if you have imperfect knowledge of the area doing the research for the book will make you an expert to be reckoned with. 
 #9 First, I don't know Python, so I can't commit of the subject you would like to write about it will be good or not. 

 But if you are going to write a book, you have to see if your subject has been written before and number of books related to that topic, also if you book will have different idea to teach the people who will use it compared to others. 

 These days people use google more, but I prefer books to read and learn more things, I also prefer the dedicate book that will teach me something form begning to Mid/Adv. level. instead of reading about talk about many things in very basic level. which I could found these info in many blogs 
 #10 After reading through some of your tutorial, I'd say hell ya', go for it. I'm still learning python and I found some of your tutorial to be helpful, and I bookmarked it for future use. 
 #11 Wish you all the best! 
 #12 I say go for it. If for nothing else than to be able to say you are a published author. Imagine telling an interviewer that you wrote a book on Python. "Of course I know Python, I wrote a book on it." Send the manuscript out. The bad news is I found editing errors in the book. The Indentation section mentions line numbers and there are no line numbers in the example. Also, the example is not indented. Good luck! 
 #13 There is a YES from me, too. 

 Although the posting has come to age, I would agree to work on it, because right now I was looking for someting like this, when I came around here.