Question (ID-59115): A good Ruby book (that resembles Dive into Python) Anyone came across something like Dive Into Python for Ruby? Something that: 

 
 Gets the language knowledge across by examples of real code that does something useful not just trivial one-liners 
 Is ment for experienced programmers, not newbies (i.e. does not explain obvious stuff like object-orientation and what is a instance vs. class variable) 
 starts with simple stuff and continues onto the really Ruby cutting-edge features like metaprogramming etc. 
 Is fun to read 
 

 Please do not answer "pickaxe" , since this is clearly nothing like Dive... 
 Answers (Total-10): #0 The Ruby Way by Hal Fulton 

 
 #1 No mention of The Well Grounded Rubyist (Manning) by David A Black (his pure Ruby follow up to Ruby for Rails). I have only skimmed it myself, but I hear good reports from it. 

 I enjoyed his writing style in Ruby for Rails, and it was an early good example of metaprogramming in print. I am assuming more of the same in the Well Grounded Rubyist. Much of the early book is introductory material however. 
 #2 I've read and like: 

 Programming Ruby: The Pragmatic Programmer's Guide 

 Great reference, I need to purchase a copy so I have it on my desk (previously read at a former employer). 

 The Ruby Way 

 I just finished reading this. Well, not cover to cover, more like reading through. Great collection of code snips and an excellent reference as well. 

 Ruby Pocket Reference 

 As I'm still really learning Ruby syntactically, I use this quite often. 
 #3 David Black's Ruby for Rails is a very good Ruby intro, especially if you have any exposure to Rails. 
 #4 While it is basic in the beginning I think Beginning Ruby by Peter Cooper is a good starting point for Ruby. 

 http://www.apress.com/book/view/9781590597668 
 #5 You want the Pragmatic Programmers Guide to Programming Ruby . Freely available to you online and a superbly written book. 
 #6 @ Prestaul - this is the pickaxe and it is not what I'm looking for. 

 @J.F. and Duke - I'll take a look at the ones you're suggesting and evaluate them. Thanks 

 I do own a copy of the pickaxe - it is just more a reference than a programmer's book. Why's poignant guide is good writing and hillarious but just doesn't get enough information across (since it is hardly a programmer's book) 
 #7 There is a thread here that describes books/online tutorials for popular languages. If you guys don't mind, could you put your suggestions there? 
 #8 "Well Grounded Rubyist by David Black" meets your four criteria. 

 The book covers Ruby 1.9 fairly well. 
 #9 Metaprogramming - Its really difficult to get your head out of the 'class of an object cannot change/mutate' illusion if you come from a conventional c/java route. You may want to take a look at this Prag Prog screencast series (5 bucks an episode) Still @ Episode1, so will let you know in a few days. So far its good. 

 Well the pickaxe is how I learnt my Ruby (not a pro though) and I still believe you should get a copy for your desk - its unbelievable handy as a reference. Thanks for flagging DiveIntoPython - a new post it on my to-read list