Question (ID-1022914): Deploying Django When finding web hosting for Rails apps, the hoster must have support for ruby on rails -- that is evident. What about hosting for Django? What support does the hoster need to provide? Python, or more than just Python? 

 This might seem like an obvious question, but I'm new to web development frameworks so I must ask :) 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 It just needs to support Python 2.3 or later (but not 3.0, yet), preferably with mod_wsgi support (although it also works with a bunch of other options , if required). 
 #1 Technically, as other responders say, the host needs very little (hey, Django even runs with Google app engine for all the latter's limitations!-). But if you want a little bit more (as in, say, support for any issues you might encounter!), I suggest you read this site as well -- it will take you but a short time, and it may prove to be really useful info. 
 #2 Other responses have covered the technical question, but it should also be mentioned that djangofriendly.com is an invaluable resource for selecting a Django web host. 
 #3 Python is all that is needed. 

 I think there is a cPanel plugin which allows your users to create and deploy Django applications, so if you have a VPS or Reseller account, or your host is running cPanel, you could simply tell them to install it. If I find the link to the plugin I will post it here. 
 #4 Well, Python is not the only thing need if you run a dedicated server . 

 You need(please correct me if I'm missing something): 

 
 A webserver which will communicate
with your Django web application,
e.g.: Apache with mod_wsgi. 
 A database interface, such as MySQL or PostgreSQL (just to mention some popular). 
 Python. 
 (Dependencies, Libraries, etc.) 
 

 You may want to read this or some general resources 

 If you use some hosting service , then you'll probably need to find a provider who claims to be able to run Django ;) 
 #5 We have already installed the requirements on the server. My point is that, will django be available there as we use fantastico in Cpanel?