Question (ID-1452934): What is the meaning of #XXX? I have seen this a lot in code, even vim marks it as a special case. #TODO and #FIXME are two other fix markers vim highlights but what does #XXX means? 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 XXX in a comment is usually a heads-up. It could be: 

 
 Something that's not implemented completely correctly. 
 Something that should be fixed later on. 
 Highlighting a possible problem spot. 
 Something you're not sure about, a question. 
 

 I've often preferred a more descriptive tag like FIXME or TODO or HACK . XXX is often used as a catch all for the above. 

 Searching for 'XXX' on the FreeBSD code cross reference is a good example of many of the uses. There are thousands... 
 #1 Some notes from a June 2005 Python Enhancement Proposal that was rejected . 

 
 Choosing between FIXME and XXX is difficult. 
 XXX seems to be more common, but much less descriptive. 
 Furthermore, XXX is a useful placeholder in a piece of code 
 having a value that is unknown. 
 
 Thus FIXME is the preferred spelling. 
 Sun says that XXX and FIXME are slightly different, giving XXX higher severity. 
 However, with decades of chaos on this topic, and too many millions of 
 developers who won't be influenced by Sun, it is easy to rightly call them synonyms. 
 

 

 The PEP Starts with, 

 
 This PEP has been rejected. While the community may be interested, 
 there is no desire to make the standard library conform to this standard. 
 

 ... 

 
 What Are Codetags? 
 
 Programmers widely use ad-hoc code comment markup conventions to serve
 as reminders of sections of code that need closer inspection or
 review. Examples of markup include FIXME , TODO , XXX ,
 BUG , but there many more in wide use in existing software. Such
 markup will henceforth be referred to as codetags . These codetags
 may show up in application code, unit tests, scripts, general
 documentation, or wherever suitable. 
 

 

 The PEP is an interesting read. 
 #2 I use XXX because it's easier to type than TODO. 

 XXX is for when you're in a hurry and will get back to this yourself. 

 TODO is for when you have to hand it off to someone else. 
 #3 Probably it's for cases that you don't know how to handle. 
Check out this: List view of TODO/FIXME/XXX/HACK statements 

 
 #4 
 NOTE: Description of how the code works (when it isn't self evident) 
 XXX: Warning about possible pitfalls, can be used as NOTE:XXX: 
 HACK: Not very well written or malformed code to circumvent a problem/bug. Should be used as HACK:FIXME: 
 FIXME: This works, sort of, but it could be done better. (usually code written in a hurry that needs rewriting) 
 BUG: There is a problem here. 
 TODO: No problem, but addtional code needs to be written (usually when you are skipping something) 
 

 At least this is how I was taught about these tags. Basically the first two (NOTE and XXX) are used for information and no action is required. While the last three (FIXME, BUG and TODO) Do require action. HACK is somewhere in between (and hardly ever used I think?). 
 #5 A placeholder, usually implying the code it refers to is: 

 
 Ugly 
 Scary 
 Magic 
 

 or worse.