Question (ID-4190632): Python or C/C++/C#, what should I learn? I am a novice PHP/HTML/CSS "programmer" and am interested in learning a major language. I looked up Python, and it seems to be pretty straightforward to use for someone coming off a language such as PHP. At the same time, I've been searching around for examples of what I can build with Python and can't find any meaningful (popular) applications of it. 

 Should I learn C/C++/C# instead? If so, which one? 

 I really only have time to learn one language, and I am looking for one that will help me in mainstream programming, ie., programs, server code, web apps, etc. 

 Thanks in advance! 
 Answers (Total-10): #0 Learn Python. It is easier to learn, has libraries to do virtually anything you might need, and can do essentially anything. 

 The only reason to use a more difficult language like C/C++ is if you need the performance or are writing code for an embedded system. They are not, however, what you should be learning initially. 

 C# is a fine language, but nothing beats Python for ease of use. 

 The scope of Python is quite broad, here are some examples: 

 
 Create a website (Django, etc.) 
 Create scripts to do tasks ranging from image manipulation to server maintenance 
 Create GUIs (Tkinter, etc.) 
 Create games (pygame) 
 Scientific computing (SciPy) 
 

 Python can interact directly with arbitrary C code, meaning anything which can be done in C, can be done in Python with a little work. Python is popular enough that an interface has been created for virtually everything already. 

 For a better look at what can be done with python out of the box, take a look at the standard library which comes with python: 
 http://docs.python.org/library/ 

 Don't get overwhelmed, most of us don't touch 90% of those, but they're there if you need them. There are also thousands upon thousands of projects which use or interact with Python in some way. Start with the tutorial . It's always helpful to have a goal when your learning something new, so make a website with CherryPy or a game with pygame. 

 In short, if it can be done with a computer, and doesn't require the speed of C/C++, it can be done with Python. 
 #1 I went from PHP to C#. It was a painful transition. However, once I got past the initial learning curve, I've never looked back. The language is great, the IDE is spectacular and the pay is much higher! 

 [Edit] in case you're curious, the pain points for me were: 

 
 going from procedural to OOP 
 going from dynamic to strongly typed 
 learning the idiosyncrasies of Visual Studio 
 having to do all of this at the same time and not being able to tell at first what was the actual C# language and what was each of these other aspects 
 

 Although I don't use Python, I've heard only great things about it and even in my ignorance have found no reason not to recommend it to others. 

 Learning C will expand your horizons in amazing ways and I highly recommend it. That said, I never use it for anything practical. 

 In my inevitably soon to be challenged opinion -- given the other options out there, C++ isn't worth learning unless you think you'll specifically be entering a field where it's the standard. 
 #2 Well.. It really depends on what you want to make... 

 Personally, I would go for C#. 

 You can then leverage all the Windows technologies (WinForms, WPF, ASP.NET, Windows Workflow to name a few important ones) and... 

 If you want to develop for Linux, then you can also use C# and mono to get your programs working on Linux. 

 C# is a standards compliant (Ecma) C-Style language, with syntax much like PHP (and much not like PHP). I learnt PHP, then I migrated to C#, then I learnt C++ and C and VB.NET (yuk)... I use C# in my job exclusively. 

 It made it easier in the long run. 

 Plus, if you are learning for a job then .NET and Java are the main ones at the moment (In Australia at least) [Have a look at Seek.com.au] 

 You could always learn more than one.... Mastery of all tools isn't a hindeerance! 
 #3 All of the above! You can't be a well rounded professional without knowing a lot of different tools. If you only know how to operate a hammer, you'll probably use that even if the job required driving screws. The nice thing is the more languages you learn, the easier it becomes, since they all have the same core elements. 
 #4 I have been a developer using all kinds of different languages since 1995 across a wide range of projects (hardware drivers to applications to games). This year I realized that unless I had a very compelling reason otherwise, all my future personal projects will be web applications (with no server side if it's avoidable). And I'm not talking about HTML pages with a bit of Javascript, I mean full fledged web applications. After developing noVNC (HTML5 VNC client) and seeing the existing and growing potential of web applications, there is just so little upside to developing fat client applications anymore (not unless I'm paid well to do otherwise). 

 I have deep and idiomatic knowledge of C, python, JavaScript, C++, perl, shell, etc and good experience with Fortran, Java, MIPS and x86 assembly, PHP, SQL, etc. And I'm currently learning Ruby and Clojure. Each of those languages has applications domains that they are very good for. But web application technologies (and JavaScript in particular) are quickly moving into most of those domains and the rate is only accelerating . 

 And before you dismiss web applications due to preconceived notions about what the web was (or is), I highly recommend this entertaining video of Paul Irish at jsconf.eu on the state of HTML5: http://blip.tv/file/4293357 

 So my recommendation would be learn all the technologies grouped under the Web Applications 1.0 banner (including HTML5). 
 #5 Learn C#. It is easier to learn, has libraries to do virtually anything you might need, and can do essentially anything. 

 Even you are writing code for an embedded system, you can also use C#. 

 Python/C/C++ is a fine language, but nothing beats C# for ease of use. 
 #6 The choice of language depends on field you are interested in. If you are OS lover or want to learn something in kernel level I would suggest you go to C. The transition wont be much painful as C is very intuitive if you know any other fancy language.
With python you can build virtually any application. Since your love is web apps, check out this link
 Python apps 
 #7 Python is a great first language, but you already know PHP. Learning python won't teach you much that you haven't already gotten from PHP. That's not to say you shouldn't learn python (go ahead, no harm in it, should be easy), but if you want to make a project out of learning a new language to expand your skills, a strongly-typed object-oriented language like C# or Java would probably be most useful. If you want to do low-level systems programming, C or C++ would make more sense, but these days that's generally better for a third major language-learning project than a second one. 
 #8 In my opinion, you should not limit yourself to only one language. 

 As a guide, it would be best to first learn Python, mainly due to the ease in code-recognizability and simplicity compared to languages such as Java or C. After you feel comfortable with Python, C would be the ideal choice, mainly because C represents the real hard-coding in programming. 

 I've always said that once you master C, all the other languages do not feel like a great challenge anymore. 
 #9 C# has a very nice IDE and library and is great for GUI applications. It is a better Java, and there is nothing at all wrong with that. I once had an interview at Microsoft in which the manager I would be working for asked me to write a simple application in C#. Never having used the language before (or Visual Studio, for that matter) I went from a standing start to a fully functional RSS reader that could auto-post to my blog in a single working day. (I landed the contract.) 

 Still, I love Python. Python (at least for me) has the advantage of producing code that works pretty much the way I intended the first time I run it. I think it's an excellent language to take your programming to the next level. It has a great standard library that has ready-to-use solutions to many higher-level programming situations, and just a ton of add-on modules that are ready to go. Also, there are some awfully sharp Python programmers here on SO to help you out when you get stuck. (I am sure there are also sharp C# programmers here, I just don't venture into their territory very often.) 

 Another nice thing about Python is that it supports multiple programming styles and makes it easy to transition among them. If you want to pretend you're writing a fancy shell script that is executed from top to bottom, Python will happily allow that. If you want to add a few functions to reduce the redundancy in your code, that is easily done. If you then decide that you want to wrap it up in a class so that you can easily use the functionality in other scripts, that too is straightforward. Python also has some nice functional-style elements, which will teach you new ways of thinking about solving problems. (I recently started reading an introduction to Haskell, a pure functional language, and I was already familiar with about half the concepts it brought up, thanks to Python.) 

 I also think the flexible type system is great for interactive experimenting and learning. It is very hard to experiment in C# because there's no interactive mode that lets you just enter commands and see what they do. Visual Studio's debugger comes close to that, though. 

 C and C++ are languages you will eventually want to know. But they require you to understand and keep track of a lot of the details that Python and C# handle for you, and a lot of the things you would take for granted in the Python or C# libraries, you would need to write from scratch in C++ (or C, if it was even practical to do in C). Learning C++ would be like being thrown into a lake to learn how to swim. You will end up a good programmer -- or you will quit programming entirely and take up some other vocation. I would start with a language that gives you water wings.