Question (ID-199180): Is there any way to get python omnicomplete to work with non-system modules in vim? The only thing I can get python omnicomplete to work with are system modules. I get nothing for help with modules in my site-packages or modules that I'm currently working on. 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 Just ran across this on Python reddit tonight: PySmell . Looks like what you're looking for. 

 
 PySmell is a python IDE completion helper. 
 
 It tries to statically analyze Python source code, without executing it, and generates information about a project’s structure that IDE tools can use. 
 
 #1 I get completion for my own modules in my PYTHONPATH or site-packages. I'm not sure what version of the pythoncomplete.vim script you're using, but you may want to make sure it's the latest. 

 EDIT: Here's some examples of what I'm seeing on my system... 

 This file (mymodule.py), I puth in a directory in PYTHONPATH, and then in site-packages. Both times I was able to get the screenshot below. 

 myvar = 'test'

def myfunction(foo='test'):
 pass

class MyClass(object):
 pass
 

 
 #2 Once I generated ctags for one of my site-packages, it started working for that package -- so I'm guessing that the omnicomplete function depends on ctags for non-sys modules. 

 EDIT: Not true at all. 

 Here's the problem -- poor testing on my part -- omnicomplete WAS working for parts of my project, just not most of it. 

 The issue was that I'm working on a django project, and in order to import django.db, you need to have an environment variable set. Since I couldn't import django.db, any class that inherited from django.db, or any module that imported a class that inherited from django.db wouldn't complete. 
 #3 While it's important to note that you must properly set your PYTHONPATH environmental variable, per the the previous answer, there is a notable bug in Vim which prevents omnicompletion from working when an import fails . As of Vim 7.2.79, this bug hasn't been fixed. 
 #4 Trouble-shooting tip: verify that the module you are trying to omni-complete can be imported by VIM. I had some syntactically correct Python that VIM didn't like: 

 :python import {module-name}
 Traceback (most recent call last):
 File "&lt;string&gt;", line 1, in ?
 File "modulename/__init__.py", line 9
  class empty_paranthesis():
       ^
 SyntaxError: invalid syntax
 

 Case-in-point, removing the parenthesis from my class definition allowed VIM to import the module, and subsequently OmniComplete on that module started to work. 
 #5 I think your after the pydiction script. It lets you add your own stuff and site-packages to omni complete. 

 While your at it, add the following to your python.vim file... 

 set iskeyword+=.
 

 This will let you auto-complete package functions e.g. if you enter... 

 os.path.
 

 and then [CTRL][N], you'll get a list of the functions for os.path.