Question (ID-1029435): PHP desktop applications I have quite a few years experience of developing PHP web applications, and have recently started to delve into Python as well. Recently I've been interested in getting into desktop applications as well, but have absolutely no experience in that area. I've seen very little written about PHP-gtk and wonder whether it's really a good area to get stuck in to. 
What I'm really looking for is something that will allow me to quite quickly develop some decent small/medium sized apps, and be able to deploy them in Linux and Windows. Something in Python or PHP would be great (but I'd be happy to learn something else if it has big advantages). 

 What do you guys recommend? 

 Thanks 
 Answers (Total-10): #0 Building applications in PHP with GTK is possible to create client-side cross-platform applications, but I don't necessarily think it's the optimal choice for GUI development... 

 Here are some links: 

 http://gtk.php.net 
 http://www.cweiske.de/phpgtk.htm 
 Gnope.org 
 kksou 
 #1 For Python, PyQt is my favorite -- a really strong framework, with rich functionality and excellent integration with Python, as well as superb tools e.g. for cross-platform UI design. 
 #2 For PHP, I think winbinder is a strong choice. 
 #3 Python and Java are both excellent for working on both Linux and Windows environment. They are generally hassle-free as long as you're not doing any OS specific type of work. Python for creating desktop apps is fairly simple and easy to learn as well if you're coming from a PHP background, especially if you're used to doing object oriented PHP. 
 #4 Appcelerator Titanium now supports building desktop applications using PHP (in addition to Javascript, Python, Ruby, too). 
 #5 Why would you like to develop a desktop app in php?? 

 Get yourself a descent programming environment (c/java/c#/) instead of abusing php 

 especially with c# and java you get pretty quick very nice results. And both are cross platform (although java is easier for cross platform stuff). 

 C(++) in combination with QT or GTK is also possible, but there the results appear slower 
 #6 I agree, java or python. If you're going to have to learn a new language, maybe don't learn java, learn python or ruby instead. 
 #7 Appcelerator Titanium . Write in Python. 

 Create executables for PC, Mac, and Linux. 
 #8 for desktop applications,i don't think PHP is a good language. 
 #9 Well its too late to answer i guess but still for the sake of information may I suggest Open Application Platform (OAP) as a possible solution. OAP allows for PHP/MySQL applications to be distributed as installable Windows(tm) applications. 
I stumbled upon it while I was looking for porting a PHP app to desktop and found this. Worked great for me. No extra tags for window creations like in winbinder etc.