Question (ID-285132): With what kind of IDE (if any) you build python GUI projects? Is there any IDE (like VS) with drag and drop support for building python GUI, connecting to dbs etc?
Eventhough I am an emacs guy, I find it much easier to create GUI with VS. 
 Answers (Total-9): #0 The short answer is "no". There is not a swiss-army-knife like IDE that is both a full-featured Python code-editor and a full-featured WYSIWYG GUI editor. However, there are several stand-alone tools that make creating a GUI easier and there are a myriad of code editors, so if you can handle having two windows open, then you can accomplish what you are trying to. 

 As for stand-alone GUI editors, which you choose is going to depend on what library you choose to develop your GUI with. I would recommend using GTK+ , which binds to Python via PyGtk and has the Glade GUI designer. I believe that there are other GUI libraries for Python that have WYSIWYG designers (Qt, Tkinter, wxWindows, etc.), but GTK+ is the one I have the most experience with so I will leave the others for other commentators. 

 Note, however, that the designer in this case is not at all language dependent. It just spits out a .glade file that could be loaded into any language that has GTK+ bindings. If you are looking for a designer that produces raw Python code (like the Code-Behind model that VS.Net uses), then I am not aware of any. 

 As for general code-editing IDE's (that do not include a GUI designer), there are many , of which PyDev / Eclipse is probably the most Visual Studio-like. 

 (Revised for clarity.) 
 #1 Also for PyGTK, there is Gazpacho , it's pure python which makes adding your own custom widgets easier, and already has gtkbuilder support. 

 I took over maintenance of the project a few months ago, and we plan to release it under the umbrella of the PIDA IDE , in a more Visual Studio-like setup. Patches accepted! 
 #2 For GUI only, I find VisualWx ( http://visualwx.altervista.org/ ) to be very good for designing wxPython apps under Windows. 

 For GUI + database, dabo ( http://dabodev.com/ ) is probably a good answer. 
 #3 If your into QT EricIDE is a good choice 
 #4 I'm not really a Pythonista, but I am a Mac user and I appreciate a good, native interface in the apps I write and use. So, if I were to use Python for a GUI app on the Mac, I'd use PyObjC with Interface Builder and Xcode, rather than a cross-platform solution. 
 #5 Eclipse has python support. 

 There's also IDLE or Wingware , though I'm not sure of their GUI support. 

 I'm sure a good google search would turn up more. 

 But in the end, I doubt it. Python is dependent on third-party widget sets like Qt, Tk, Gtk, wxWidgets, etc for GUI support. Each of those will have their own system for laying things out. 
 #6 You can try Boa Constructor or Dabo 
 #7 I'm a GNOME guy, so I prefer PyGTK. The standard GUI builder for that is the Glade Interface Designer (until it transitions to GtkBuilder). 
 #8 For wxPython I use xrced to make GUI definitions contained in xml files, I find this way to be elegant and scalable. 

 wxformbuilder is also good. 

 As for the IDE, I'm a WingIDE fan.