Question (ID-207701): Python tutorial for total beginners? I've recently been given a group of five 16/17 year old students to mentor through a extra-curricular software project. The only trouble is, they have never done any form of coding / scripting. This in itself makes me feel nervous. After much agonising I settled on getting them to use Python as its free and there appears to be a lot of useful information online. 

 I myself have never used any python or even done any scripting, so I'll be learning it alongside the students. This fact doesn't really bother me so much as Im a professional and what kind of pro can't learn a new language ?! ... right! What does concern me is that the students have no rounding in software theory, techniques or practices so Ill have to point them in the direction of a good tutorial. 

 Does anyone know of a good python tutorial for (total) beginners that contains elements of theory and software techniques? 

 EDIT 

 Conclusion... 
Generally the scheme went very well. There was an initial hurdle to overcome by explaining syntax... oddly enough the hardest thing for the students to grasp was the enforced indenting of python. If I were to do it again I would probably choose a language where blocks of code were clearly delineated with { } as I think that the students might better be able to grasp the program's structure and flow. 

 If anyone gets a chance to do something similar I would highly recommend it as it is great for reinforcing just how much you know yourself! Not to mention the challenges in improving your communication skills. I found that I was better able to communicate technical concepts to my (non-technical) manager in a much clearer and concise way. Students have a great way of saying 'I don't understand' something I don't think I've ever heard my manager say! 
 Answers (Total-15): #0 How to think like a python programmer may fit your bill. The author wrote this book as a book for an introductionary programming course. 

 Learn python the hard way is another tutorial for learning python. Another approach to learn python. 
 #1 Learning to Program by Alan Gauld, covers the basics. It uses Python mostly, but references other languages. 
 #2 2 free books come to mind: 

 Dive Into Python: http://diveintopython.org/ 
A Byte of Python: http://www.swaroopch.com/notes/Python 

 Both are excellent beginners books and are available in print version or free online. 

 Here is a comprehensive list of free books online: http://linkmingle.com/list/List-of-Free-Online-Python-Books-freebooksandarticles 
 #3 The tutorial in the official python manual is excellent. 
 #4 The " Think in Python " (Bruce Eckel) e-book is a good point to start learning Python and get good O.O. habits. 
 #5 Python for Software Design which you can soon buy as a book, or download as a PDF file (which probably is not as nicely typeset or complete as the book). 
 #6 For a truly exhaustive list of Python tutorials indexed by subject and including a list of "beginner" tutorials, see http://www.awaretek.com/tutorials.html 
 #7 For the true beginner, Invent Your Own Computer Games with Python is superb. Really simple (often brute force) code, reimplementing simple games (tic-tac-toe, etc.) at the command line, while building towards smarter coding. 

 Also, it's free! 
 #8 Have a look at the page Beginner's Guide to Python , on the official python web site. Here is also a list of suggested books . 

 My advice would be: take a recent book on the subject, because Python syntax changed with time to make programming with it much easier. For backward compatibility the "old" commands were kept, and so if you try these they will still work, but they are much more complex to use. 
 #9 As always, I recommend at least dipping into the classics - try taking stuff from SICP for when you want to detour into a little bit of computer-science magic. 
 #10 I like A Byte of Python . The way it describes itself: 

 
 If all you know about computers is how to save text files, then this is the book for you. 
 
 #11 There are quite a few books to begin python. 

 The best one, or the easiest and fastest one with allot of details and usefull information would be 'think like a computer scientist' it covers most of the basics + that the problems/projects it builds I've actually been able to utilize later. 

 other books are: 

 Oreilly Head First Python 

 Building SKills in Python (Steven F. Lott) 

 Beginning Python (magnus Lie Hetland) 

 and then as you get better you should look into Python Algorithms (m.l. Hetland)
IT focusses and dives into the time it takes for computations, and how to reduce time from exponantial to linear, or from linear to logarithmic etc. 
 #12 Try this: http://beginpython.com 
 #13 I stared with Dive Into Python which is freely available online. I still go back to it for some things. 

 I think it also depends on what you want to do with Python. 

 For Web Scraping, for example, there are several directed tutorials: 

 Scrapy tutorial 

 urllib2 tutorial 

 BeautifulSoup documentation / tutorial 
 #14 I would suggest http://learnpythonthehardway.org/ as it was written to solve exactly this problem i.e. teach people how to programme who have never attempted it before.