Question (ID-520210): Where is Python used? I read about it a lot on Reddit I have downloaded the Pyscripter and learning Python. But I have no Idea if it has any job value , especially in India. I am learning Python as a Hobby. But it would be comforting to know if Python programmers are in demand in India. 
 Answers (Total-8): #0 Everywhere. It's used extensively by google for one. 

 See list of python software for more info, and also who uses python on the web? 
 #1 In many large companies it is a primary scripting language.
Google is using it along with Java and C++ and almost nothing else.
Also many web pages are built on top of python and Django. 
Another place is game development. Many games have their engines written in C++ but all the logic in Python. 

 In other words it is one of the most valuable tools. 

 This might be of interest for you as well: 

 
 Is Python good for big software projects (not web based)? 
 Are there any good reasons why I should not use Python? 
 What did you use to teach yourself python? 
 
 #2 It definitely has job value. For instance Google requires it. Have a look at Google openings in India : 

 
 Excellent programming skills in at
 least one of the following languages:
 C, C++, Java or Python (C++/Python
 preferred) 
 
 #3 Not sure about India, but you can get a decent overview of available Python jobs on the python.org jobs page here . 
 #4 Try looking at Mark Pilgrim's excellent book " Dive Into Python " which is available for download under GNU Free Documentation License. 

 HTH 

 cheers, 

 Rob 
 #5 In 10 years of web development I've had 1 client have me write an email parsing app with it. Not that it doesn't get used, but I've seen Ruby/php/.net way more often in the wild. 

 Edit:
From the other posts if you plan on working at Google, it sounds like the language to learn - LOL! 
 #6 It's juste one example but I know it is widely used in large scientific institutions with high tech machinery where non-programmers (typically physicists) need quick prototypes or tools to cover their data collection/processing needs. The easy-to access scripting language aspect clearly plays its role here. So I don't know about building a career out of that only but I'd definitely say that knowing Python is a very valuable asset on your resume, it'll strengthen your "smell of usefulness". 
 #7 The google app engine lets you use python (or Java). I HIGHLY recommend that you check it out. If you want to have a FREE website with a database (actually a datastore but it works much like a database) using python, THIS IS IT. It scales up too. If you start to get enough traffic you would have to start paying for the usage it requires. 

 http://code.google.com/appengine/docs/python/overview.html 

 You could make your own python based site and run some ads. Voila, make some money. Also, I'm sure google could be impressed by some good python because I hear they use it for much of their own sites.