Question (ID-184742): What is a good CMS written in Python (and not Plone)? I've been doing CMS sites for clients using Joomla for a while now, but I've been migrating a lot of my coding over to Python and have been looking for a good CMS solution that's written in Python. 

 Most of what I've seen so far is either Zope based (Plone) or Django based. I'm not totally opposed to something written in a Python framework such as Django, but I don't want to use Zope (seems to me to have too much "bloat" for something like this). 

 Is there anything in the Python community like Joomla? I know I could always "roll my own", but I'd rather use something pre-built (if there is such a thing). 

 Thanks for your time,
Seth 
 Answers (Total-13): #0 The pinax project is a kind of django bundle with some modules to build community sites. It is a good start to build your cms on it. There is a video available presenting it a djangoconf. 

 Feature List: 

 
 openid support 
 email verification 
 password management 
 site announcements 
 a notification framework 
 user-to-user messaging 
 friend invitation (both internal and external to the site) 
 a basic twitter clone 
 oembed support 
 gravatar support 
 interest groups (called tribes) 
 projects with basic task and issue management 
 threaded discussions 
 wikis with multiple markup support 
 blogging 
 bookmarks 
 tagging 
 contact import (from vCard, Google or Yahoo) 
 photo management 
 

 (from their website) 
 #1 Unfortunately, there's really not a lot of mature CMSes out there for Python. Here are a couple of choices though: 

 
 Skeletonz (still in beta) 
 PyLucid (haven't actually tried them out, but couldn't get past the constant grammatical and spelling errors) (which are probably because it's made by Germans) 
 MoinMoin is very mature, but isn't really made for CMS stuff. With that said, if you spend some time with it, you can mod it to do CMS-like stuff. 
 

 So with that said, your best bet may actually be to roll your own in Django or something similar. 
 #2 Considering this now it looks like the two best contenders are Django CMS 2.0 and Fein CMS. Here's Fein. You'll have to find Django CMS 2 yourself, because I can only post one link. =) 

 http://spinlock.ch/pub/feincms/ 

 They're not as complete as drupal, but in contexts where you want to write code alongside a CMS, they may be a better choice than Drupal. 
 #3 I did a similar investigation a while ago, and settled on Plone. It does wrap most of the Zope complexity fairly well, but it continues to seem heavy-weight for what it does. Then again, the functionality offered is fairly substantial, so some trade-off in terms of increased complexity should be expected. 

 I'd recommend giving Plone a go; the unified installer means you can build and run it up very easily (it includes its own version of Python, stuck as it is on 2.4). 

 All that said, if I wanted to build another CMS-based site, I'd go with something non-Python, such as Drupal (PHP). 
 #4 Take a look at Merengue CMS , is a new django CMS with a lot of features: 

 
 Pluggable 
 GIS integrated 
 Out-of-the-box caching 
 Page sorting, Drag and drop, WYSIWYG Editor 
 Theming 
 Full featured management interface 
 Collaborative edition 
 i18n. Translation tools (django-inlinetrans,django-transmeta,Transhette) 
 South 
 pypi 
 Extensible data schema. Not hierarchical pages 
 Unit tests and selenium test suites 
 

 Check the demo site. 
 #5 Lighting Fast CMS is a promising new kid on the block. 

 I'm looking forward on its development. 

 LFC is Django based. 
 #6 The code that runs djangoproject.com is good, but not really released as a package. You can grab the source though, and tweak it for your needs. 
 #7 I would say Django is one of the better options out there. Version 1.3 has been released and with things like the form processing, out-of-the-bix admin site and templating language a very good option. 
 #8 You know, you can use a different back-end with Plone if you don't like Zope. 

 http://plone.org/events/conferences/2008-washington-dc/agenda/relational-database-applications-with-plone-and-sqlalchemy/index_html/ 
 #9 Python 

 zope2 + CMS = plone &lt; Zope3 + CMS = Z3Ext 

 ( http://z3ext.net/ ) 
 #10 If you are looking to manage media or podcasts a good python-based CMS solution is MediaCore . It just launched this last week and really looks like a solid content management system. The design is sleek and for organizing, tagging, and managing videos or podcasts it looks like a great solution. 
 #11 It might look a bit oldfashioned but you should give ZMS a try: 

 http://www.zms-publishing.com/ 
 #12 At the moment there is a relatively new one in active development named Kotti ( Github ). 

 List of CMS, taken from http://wiki.python.org/moin/ContentManagementSystems 

 
 BAOW is a lightweight content management system based on SQL database
 (Firebird/InterBase, MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite). 
 
 Django offers elementary support for content management
 (and was initially derived from the lower levels of a commercial
 content management system). 
 
 django-cms written on top of django.
 Provides a full cms stack with the power of a webframework under it.
 Easily extendable. 
 
 ikaaro offers content management functionality. 
 
 KPAX is a complete CMS solution based on web2py . It provides wikis,
 blogs, news, rss feeds, surveys, assignments, web pages, versioning,
 group based roles, Central Authentication System, upload and
 downloading media streaming, embedded media player, wysiwyg editor,
 ajax search, customizable templates. Works with SQLite, MySQL,
 PostgreSQL, Oracle or MSSQL. Can be downloaded from the web2py
 appliances repository (broken) 
 
 Leonardo extensible content management system,
 architected in a REST-like style. Initially focused on providing for
 personal websites with a password-protected wiki and blog (including
 Atom feed). It can be run as CGI and uses the filesystem as a
 database. v0.7.0 released: 2006-03-09 
 
 Madpy is built on top of apache , mod_python , 
 postgresql and cheetah templates. Supports creating content
 in more than one language, clean url's , url to object mapping and
 madata an MVC like mechanism. 
 
 MediaCore Video CMS is an open source media focused content
 management system. It features video &amp; audio support, YouTube &amp; Vimeo
 integration, podcasting, iTunes RSS generation, user-submitted content,
 embedded media player, wysiwg edior, search, and is highly customizable.
 There is both a front-end for users and a back-end for administrators.
 It is built upon Pylons, SQLAlchemy, MYSQL and runs with Apache, 
 Fast_CGI or Mod_WSGI. 
 
 Merengue is a fully featured CMS framework built on top of 
 Django framework . It’s not only a plug-and-play CMS but a 
 framework to build CMS sites > at top speed with clean and re-usable code. 
 
 PyLucid is a lightweight CMS written in Python WSGI. No shell
 account is needed. To run PyLucid you need a standard Web server with
 Python (at least v2.3), CGI and mySQLdb. 
 
 Skeletonz is simple, powerful, extensible, reliable. Has been
 in development since October 2005. Ajax based editor with spell
 checking &amp; UTF-8 support. High performance: best result is around 600
 request/sec. Open source, GNU GPL. 
 
 ACRCms Flexible Web CMS based on Turbogears and SQLAlchemy 
 

 So as @Jason Baker already mentioned, there are not a lot of options in the python world. From my point of view the only mature CMS are plone , django-cms and merengue . And maybe soon Kotti can catch up.