Question (ID-6105273): Specific IDE, for specific things I need an IDE that can do the following: 

 
 Run on an oldish laptop (2GB Ram, 1.9 ghz intel celeron M) 
 Run well on an oldish laptop (with a browswer open) 
 Be able to run on windows 
 Be able to run smoothly on windows 
 Is able to do Java (or, if you really can't find anything, C# will be okay) 
 An extension or something for Python would be nice 
 Django support would be awesome 
 It would be great to have SFTP/FTP editing support that actually works 
 

 I don't care about lots of extensibility or commercial support or a kitchen sink or any of that, I just need it to be stable and all of the above. 

 And, Vim or EMACS aren't answers since they (in my mind, without excessive configuration) don't qualify as IDEs. 

 And, if this doesn't belong here, please tell me. 

 EDIT: Code completion is also important. 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 notepad++ has an ftp plugin that works very nicely and runs on very little resource. Will syntax highlight most languages and has some compiler support. 
 #1 Eclipse with PyDev plugin gives you Java, Python and Django. Not sure about SFTP/FTP editing. 
 #2 E Text Editor looks promising. 
 #3 I think IntelliJ is pretty nice now. 
 #4 The Zeus editor has support for Java and C# , does SFTP/FTP editing, is scriptable in Python and should run fine on a lower end Windows box off that size. 
 #5 Use the IDE and tools that makes you the most productive.
Use the IDE and tools that you want to use.
Use the IDE and tools that you will enjoy using. 

 If your computer is preventing you from doing that, then get a new computer. 

 Long gone are the days when labor was cheap, and hardware expensive.
These days hardware is cheap, labor is expensive. 

 Your time is worth money. Don't waste it.
You are more important than that. 

 Whether it's from not being able to use the best tool for the job, or losing time on slow compiles, it all adds up. 

 In a completely contrived example:
If you're losing 1 hour of productivity a day, 5 days a week, for 48 weeks out of the year, that adds up to 240 hours. Even if you were working minimum wage, at say $10/hour, that's $2400 in lost productivity. 

 Take whatever you are losing in productivity, and re-invest it into solutions to those problems.