Question (ID-1161339): Can you point me to a large Python open-source project? I would like to see how a large (>40 developers) project done with Python looks like: 

 
 how the code looks like 
 what folder structure they use 
 what tools they use 
 how they set up the collaboration environment 
 what kind of documentation they provide 
 

 It doesn't matter what type of software it is (server, client, application, web, ...) but I would prefer something mature (version 1.0 already done) 
 Answers (Total-10): #0 The Django web framework. 

 Also, Twisted Matrix . 

 I am not sure about the exact number of developers, though. 
 #1 Trac - which coincidentally is also usable for the collaboration environment part of your question. 
 #2 
 Roundup - Issue Tracker 
 Twisted - Network Programming Framework 
 Zenoss - Network Monitor 
 Mercurial - SCM Tool 
 
 #3 There are about 40 developers working on the language itself . You can take a look at the repository or download the source [ftp] to see style, organization, &amp;c. 

 Here are some other large Python projects (lines-of-code large). 
 #4 Chandler is a really huge one that had problems because of its size and the developers working on it, so you can learn from their failures. There's a book written about it too. 

 Wingware Python IDE is a huge project, unfortunately it's closed source. But I think it's still interesting to see what a large desktop application is like in Python. 
 #5 The Plone CMS and the Zope application server on which Plone runs. 
 #6 Perhaps more low-level than you're looking for but the NumPy and SciPy projects are very mature, open source, numerical and scientific programming libraries. Although the API is Python, much of the low-level work is done in C or Fortran. 

 The IPython project is a pure-python project that is also quite mature. 
 #7 Is pinax big enough? or ella ? 

 I'm not sure of the developer count, but they are big and have a fair number of forks. 

 Django would probably qualify. 
 #8 Pylons. 

 Even it is 0.9.8, it is quite mature 
 #9 PyQt4 is a large project.
 
Here is a list with the most popular python projects .