Question (ID-34611): What's the best toolkit for doing 2d game programming with Python? What's the best toolkit for doing 2d game programming with Python? I've heard of pygame but is there anything I should add to it or is there another group of modules that surpasses it? 
 Answers (Total-9): #0 I use pygame myself and it is very good. It has good documentation and tutorials, and is quite well designed. I've also heard wonderful reviews of pyglet . 
 #1 A blog post covering several of the alternatives , including PyGame , PyCap , SpriteCraft , and ika . I have also seen pyglet mentioned. 

 You may also want to look at Panda , which is a very easy to use 3D engine with Python bindings. It is used for rapid prototyping at Carnegie Mellon's ETC . 
 #2 I have used and would highly recommend pyglet , which provides 2D sprite graphics, hooks into OpenGL effects, audio support, file asset management, and excellent text layout and display support (not something you always find in a 2D game library). The API is sane, well-documented, and easy to get started with, and goes deep (especially if you're an OpenGL wizard). 

 As a companion to pyglet, I have used and would also suggest Cocos2D , which adds scene management, improved sprites, tiled map support, and fancy (accelerated) effects to add a little polish. Cocos is still young, but taking shape quickly, and already has fairly solid documentation. 
 #3 I think pygame is the standard for game development in Python, I don't know of any others. A book you may be interested in is Game Programming with Python, Lua, and Ruby . Not only does it cover Python (and, I believe, the pygame module), but it also gives you exposure to Lua and Ruby. It's also available on books24x7 if you have a subscription there. 
 #4 Another option is pycap which is a wrapper for the popcap framework with Python. 
 #5 If you're already familiar with using OpenGL in another language (probably C or C++) then PyOpenGL is awesome. I was surprised as to how easy it was to switch from OpenGL/C to OpenGL/Python. The performance isn't half bad either. 

 I've heard good things about PyGame and Pyglet though I must admit I haven't really done much messing around with either one. 
 #6 I've only heard people talk about pygame. It has tons of followers &amp; plenty of functionality. 

 Recently I saw this book at barnes &amp; noble which I might check out one day. It looked good. 
 #7 pyGame is impressive 
 #8 A followup question: 

 Can't I just code a simple 2D game inside some existing graphic/windowing toolkit like the excellent wxPython ? 

 I will benefit from the ready-made GUI widgets that can wrap the graphics in my game, while with pyGame I have to develop those myself.