Question (ID-2455996): how to build good python web application hello 
i never worked with web programming and 
i've been asked lately to write a web-based software to manage assets and tasks. to be used by more than 900 persons 
what are the recommended modules , frameworks , libraries for this task.
and it will be highly appreciated if you guyz recommend some books and articles that might help me. thanks in advance 
 Answers (Total-7): #0 Check out Django . I would say it is the most comprehensive and easy to use python web framework. 

 They have a book and tutorial as well. 

 You might also like to visit Python wiki about web frameworks for more suggestions. But still, I highly recommend Django. 
 #1 I've really enjoyed working with CherryPy in my project. Django had a little more of a CMS feel than I needed. As a Python novice, CherryPy was very approachable to me. After several months of working with it, I often find interesting ways to use and extend it. Not sure how good a match it might be for your project, but it's at least worth checking out as an alternative to Django. 
 #2 I've been working with Pylons for a while now and I highly recommend it. Before using it I evaluated Django as well. I found Pylons was a better fit due to how easy it was to customize and fit into my work flow. Django seemed to be great for quickly starting projects, but I felt it was tough to make more complicated tasks work. I've developed a task/inventory/contact management system with Pylons and I've been nothing but amazed with how quickly it's allowed me to develop and deploy. 
 #3 let's just get all the frameworks mentioned again. 

 Turbogears 

 bfg 

 webob 

 web2py 

 zope 

 grok 

 etc etc etc.... 
 #4 I've never built web application with python-based framework but if I had to I would try Django 
I know people who worked with it and were very satisfied 
 #5 Django is a great place to start since it is the most widely used web framework for Python. You could also look at Pinax which is build off of Django. Pinax is typically used for rapid development. Its templates are great for that. Web.py is also another great Python web framework worth looking in to. 
 #6 I haven't used it but one of my co-workers has used the Python Google Data API and has said good things. Not positive of everything it can do but it might be helpful to you.