Question (ID-119562): Tabs versus spaces in Python programming I have always used tabs for indentation when I do Python programming. But then I came across a question here on SO where someone pointed out that most Python programmers use spaces instead of tabs to minimize editor-to-editor mistakes. 

 How does that make a different? Are there other reasons why you would use spaces instead of tabs for Python? Or is it simply not true? 

 Should I switch my editor to insert spaces instead of tabs right away or keep on going like I used to? 
 Answers (Total-18): #0 Because PEP-8 tells us to use spaces :) 
 #1 Tired of chasing after indentation typos ( 8 spaces ? no, 7 oops 9 ... ) I switched my sources to 'tabs only'. 

 1 tab == 1 indent level, full stop 

 The point is: if you want to display the indentation as 4, 8 or pi / 12 character width, just change the settings in your text editor, don't mess with the code :p 

 (personally I use 4 char width tab... but some would prefer 3 or 8 space, or even use variable width fonts !!) 
 #2 The most "pythonic" way is to use 4 spaces per indentation level. The Python interpreter will however recognize spaces or tabs. The only gottcha is you must never mix spaces and tabs , pick one or the other. That said, the specification recommends spaces, most developers use spaces, so unless you have a really good reason not to, I'd say go with spaces. 
 #3 I recently came across an article titled Python: Myths about Indentation which discusses this and related questions. The article has good reasons for recommending the use of spaces when writing Python code, but there is certainly room for disagreement. 

 I believe it's true that most Python programmers use spaces only. 
 #4 USE AN EDITOR THAT DISPLAYS TAB CHARACTERS (all whitespace, for that matter). You're programming, not writing an article. 

 I use tabs. There's no room for a one-space error in the tabs (if you can see them). The problem IS that people use different editors, and the only common thing in the world is: tab==indent, as above. Some bloke comes in with the tab key set to the wrong number of spaces or does it manually and makes a mess. TABs and use a real editor. (This isn't just contrary to the PEP, it's about C/C++ and other whitespace-agnostic languages too). 

 /steps down from soapbox 
 #5 Use an editor that allows you to insert spaces up to the tabstop when you press the TAB key, instead of inserting a \t character. And then forget about it. 
 #6 My main reason for using tabs over spaces is the backspace key. If I'm on a line and I want to backspace-remove an indentation on just that one line I have to hit backspace 4x if it were spaces; whereas, I only need to hit it once if it's a tab. 

 I will continue to use tabs because—like was stated before—it's easier to convert from tabs to spaces, but not the other way around. 

 I'm thinking I want to write a simple program that converts code with spaces into code with tabs, because I freaking hate spaces. They drive me up the wall! 

 Oh! And using the arrow keys to navigate left and right is always a pain in the ass when it's spaces. 
 #7 The only inconvenience I experience with using spaces instead of tabs is that you cannot easily remove an indentation level, you have to remove 4 spaces instead of just one tab. 
 #8 Thus spake the Lord: Thou shalt indent with four spaces. No more, no less. Four shall be the number of spaces thou shalt indent, and the number of thy indenting shall be four. Eight shalt thou not indent, nor either indent thou two, excepting that thou then proceed to four. Tabs are right out. -- Georg Brandl 
 #9 Editor-to-editor mistake occurs when you have mixed indentation within a file . This arises as follows: a block of code is indented with 4 spaces, and then one indentation level "in", it is indented with tabs. Now the heathen who did this (mixing tabs and spaces) had it so his tabs are also 4 spaces, so he sees no problems, and python sees no problems. Now our victim comes along later, and he has his tabs set to 8 spaces. Now our victims thinks the code looks all whacked, and fixes it by removing one level of indentation , which now makes the code look like it is still 2 levels of indentation, but is really one level . At this point all hell breaks loose. 

 The lesson here is that you should never, ever, mix tabs and spaces. If you keep to this, then it is easy to reindent your code into spaces or tabs, regardless of which you personally use. The best way to ensure you don't mix tabs and spaces is to always run python with -tt , which will produce an error when tabs and spaces are mixed. 

 As for tabs and spaces, I personally use tabs so separate indentation from appearance - it is much easier to change the appearance of code when it is indented with tabs than it is with spaces. I know this runs contrary to what 99% of python programmers do, but that is my personal preference, and it is easy in any case to convert a tabbed file to a spaced one. The reverse is not always true, since you can accidentally whack out 4 spaces in strings etc. 
 #10 You CAN mix tabs and spaces... BUT a tab is considered to be the same indentation as 8 spaces, so unless your editor is set up to consider a tab to be 8 spaces you're asking for trouble when mixing them. 
 #11 Everyone has different preferences on how much code should be indented. Let's say you share code with someone and he or she has different preferences regarding indentation. If the indentations are in tabs, your friend can always just change the tab width in their editor settings. However, if the indentations are in spaces, your friend will actually have to change the source code if he or she want to set it to their preference. Then when you get your friend's changes, you may decide to change it back to your preference. In this case, you will either have to deal with the tedium of changing indentation levels back and forth, or one person must adopt the other's preferences in indentation level. If both you and your friend use tabs, the fact that you have different preferences is a non-issue, as you can each see different indentation levels while the code remains unchanged. That is why, in my opinion, tabs are better than spaces for indentation in all programming languages. 
 #12 Everyone can agree how many spaces are in a space. No one can agree how many spaces are in a tab. 
 #13 I'm primarily a C++ programmer, but sometimes my projects include small amounts of Python. I use tabs to indent my C++ code. This means that I have three options here: 

 
 Use tabs in C++ and spaces in Python. This allows my C++ files to remain as they are and I follow the PEP-8 recommendation, but I am inconsistent within my project. 
 Change my C++ code to use spaces. This allows all of my files within my project to be consistent, and I follow the PEP-8 recommendation, but requires me to go back and change all of my C++ files. I consider this a bad thing because I prefer tabs. 
 Use tabs in my C++ code and Python code. This makes my entire project consistent and allows me to use my preferred indentation style: tabs. The downside is that I am not following the PEP-8 standard. 
 

 For my projects, I generally go with option 3. 
 #14 I know this is an old question, but it still comes up near the top of a google search on the topic, and I think I can add a little value. When I was first learning python, I was put off a little by the idea of significant white space, as most languages to use it are inflexible. That said, I was impressed by python's ability to understand a variety of indentation styles. When considering what style to use for a new project, I think it is important to keep two things in mind. 
First, it is important to understand how python interprets indentation. Bryan Oakley mentioned the possibility of off-by-one errors when using tabs, but this actually isn't possible with the default interpreter settings. There is a better explanation of this in Learning Python , from O'Rielly Media. Basically, there is a variable (which can be changed by including a comment at the top of a source file # tab-width: ) that defines the tab width. When python encounters a tab, it increases the indentation distance to the next multiple of tab-width . Thus if a space followed by a tab is entered along the left of the file, the next multiple of tab-width is 8. If a tab by itself is entered, the same thing happens. In this way, it is safe, if your editor is configured properly, to use tabs, and even to mix tabs and spaces. As long as you set your editor's tab stops to the same width as the python tab-width declaration (or 8 if it is absent). It is generally a bad idea to use an editor with a tab width of other than 8 spaces, unless you specify the tab-width in the file. 
Second, much of the syntactic design of python is to encourage code readability and consistent style between programmers on the same project. That said, the question becomes, for any particular project, what will make the code the most readable by the people working on the project . Certainly it is a good idea to keep a consistent indentation style, but depending on the platform and the editor used by the project, a different style may make sense for different projects. If there is no compelling reason to not conform to pep8, then it makes sense to do so, because it will conform to what people expect. I have encountered projects that use a mix of tabs and spaces successfully. Basically spaces are used to indent small sections, where the fact that it is in an indented section is relatively unimportant; while tabs are used to draw the reader's attention to a large structural feature. For example, classes begin with a tab, which simple conditional checks inside a function use 2 spaces. Tabs are also useful when dealing with large blocks of text indented multiple levels. When you drop out of 3-4 levels of indentation, it is far easier to line up with the proper tab than it is to line up with the proper number of spaces. If a project doesn't use the pep8 recommended style, it is probably best to write a style guide into a file somewhere so that the indentation pattern remains consistent and other people can read explicitly how to configure their editor to match. 
Also, python2.x has an option -t to issue warnings about mixed tabs and spaces and -tt to issue an error. This only applied to mixed tabs and spaces inside the same scope. python3 assumes -tt and so far as I've found, there is no way to disable that check. 
 #15 Tabs rule. Same argument for nested loops and you want to bring the outer loop "back" 1 level. Tip: If you want to convert old space-riddled python code into tabs use the TabOut utility available as an executable on http://www.textpad.com/add-ons/ . 
 #16 People will use different editors on the same code. These editors will represent a tab on the screen differently. If you're working on an editor that represents a tab as 4 spaces, if you indent the first line by "\t " and the second by "\t\t" , they'll look like they're in the same indent level: 8 spaces. 

 The python interpreter doesn't know your editor, and he has to interpret the tab as some amount of indentation. In fact, it interprets the tab as 8 spaces, so he'll see different indent levels than what you intended: 12 spaces for the first line, 16 spaces for the second. You're toasted. 
 #17 I use two space indentation and an editor (kwrite) that inserts spaces instead of tabs when I hit the tab key.