Question (ID-2180916): A Python IDE for Windows comparable to Visual Studio As I look at what features I want in a programming language, I notice that many of them are more related to the development environment then the actual language, the best one I have encountered so far being Visual Studio. 

 As I am considering Python development in the future, I would like to know of IDE's that could represent comparable features to that of Visual Studio. Mainly: 

 
 Intellesense 
 Highlighting of errors (primarily syntax errors) 
 Step-by-step debugging w/ immediate window. 
 

 And likely others, but these are the main three. The variant of Python is unimportant, as long as it is relatively compatible with the official implementation. (That means IronPython is out.) 

 Also, I don't want to use Eclipse. I've had a great deal of difficulty configuring Eclipse in the past that I do not wish to go through again. 

 Clarification on why I don't want Eclipse: I have Eclipse for PHP installed. This is useful for PHP, but means I can't install another Eclipse on the same platform. 
 Answers (Total-11): #0 I would recommend PyCharm . It is really integrated nicely with django as well. So far I haven't seen anything like it, not even Eclipse with PyDev and Netbeans. What I really like about PyCharm is you can view the Python sources that you have in your PYTHONPATH. PyCharm is based on the well renown IntelliJ IDEA, I can say that so far it is comparable to Visual Studio. 
 #1 I recommend Wing IDE - not sure if the feature you want are complete in the free version, but it can't hurt to download and try! 
 #2 I use Pydev based on Eclipse. Configuration for just python is much simpler than for Java just install pydev. 

 See Stackoverflow for the big thread 
 #3 Sorry, but there is no IDE for Python that can stand up to Visual Studio on Windows. Microsoft has spent a lot of time and money on Visual Studio and it really is the best in the industry (for an IDE). It's also hard to offer good intellisense support for Python because of its dynamic nature. 

 I personally would recommend Komodo for an IDE but I always feel like there should be something better available. 
 #4 I really like Komodo IDE. http://www.activestate.com/komodo/features/ . Again not free. Worth it. 

 Has 

 
 Multi-language Support 
 Autocomplete and Call Tips 
 Multi-language File Support 
 Standard Editing Features 
 Syntax Checking 
 Syntax Coloring 
 Abbreviations 
 Vi Emulation 
 Emacs Keybindings 
 HTML Preview 
 View HTML Source 
 Multilingual Input Method Editor (IME) support 
 Code Snippets 
 Code Folding 
 Multi-document Editing 
 History 
 Search Highlighting 
 Editor Hyperlinking 
 CSS Color Popup 
 Primary Language Preferences 
 Sub-language Background Colors 
 

 It also has a pretty strong Multi-language Graphical Debugger that reminds me a bit of Dev Studio. Likewise, if you ever move away from windows, Komodo will run there as well. 

 One of my favorite features is remote debugging where I was actually able to hit a breakpoint from a remote server in Dallas (I am in Chicago) by mapping ports and such. I also like the VI mode because that is my favorite text editor. 

 Good Luck, Brian 
 #5 I like the Python support that Netbeans has. 

 It has all of the features that you are looking for. 

 As a side note: Most IDEs have a learning curve that you have to get over in order to truly take advantage the power they provide. It is worth putting in the effort up front to learn how to use and configure your IDE(s) well. That being said, I am not the worlds biggest eclipse fan, and I agree it can be difficult to work with if you are not used to it. 
 #6 
 Also, I don't want to use Eclipse.
 I've had a great deal of difficulty
 configuring Eclipse in the past that I
 do not wish to go through again. 
 

 Eclipse now has easier dependency resolution so that installing new components are much easier than before. 

 
 Clarification on why I don't want
 Eclipse: I have Eclipse for PHP
 installed. This is useful for PHP, but
 means I can't install another Eclipse
 on the same platform. 
 

 You don't need to install two copies of Eclipse to use another environment. Eclipse is designed so that you can do many things with a single installation, it uses plug-ins to add functionality. 

 
 Is it possible to install two versions
 of Eclipse at the same time then? (One
 for Pydev, the other one for PHP) 
 

 Having Php and Pydev is easy to manage due to Eclipse Perspectives . Eclipse knows to switch automatically between the tools you want to use, you just need to make sure you tell Eclipse what type of project you are working on when you create a new project or import an existing one. 

 I would recommend downloading the Java EE edition and then installing the add-ons you want. Installing Pydev is very straight forward, you simply: 

 
 Go to Help->Install New Software 
 Click the "add" button near the top. 
 Give a name, like "Pydev" in the
name field. Paste this URL to the
field labeled "Location:":
 http://pydev.org/updates 
 After pressing Okay you check off
the two boxes that appear with Pydev in the name 
 Click "Next" Follow the wizard instructions! 
 

 To install Php, simply follow these instructions: http://wiki.eclipse.org/PDT/Installation#From_Update_Site 
 #7 You might try Eric . I haven't tried it in a while, but I believe it has all those features. 
 #8 Late to this thread, but you should give this add-in from microsoft itself a try: 

 http://pytools.codeplex.com 

 highlights: 

 open source &amp; free; >>cpython&lt;&lt; and ironpython support; edit/debug/profile; ipython integration; cluster support (MPI); 

 it also works w the "integrated shell" version of VS, for a totally free &amp; lighweight IDE. 

 (disclaimer - i work on the project) 
 #9 If not eclipse then netbeans 
 #10 Check out http://pythonide.blogspot.com/ 

 Stani's python editor is a REALLY complete suite.