Question (ID-1903065): Is Google App Engine right for me? I am thinking about using Google App Engine.It is going to be a huge website. In that case, what is your piece of advice using Google App Engine. I heard GAE has restrictions like we cannot store images or files more than 1MB limit(they are going to change this from what I read in the GAE roadmap),query is limited to 1000 results, and I am also going to se web2py with GAE. So I would like to know your comments. 

 Thanks 
 Answers (Total-8): #0 Having developed a smallish site with GAE, I have some thoughts 

 
 If you mean "huge" like "the next YouTube", then GAE might be a great fit, because of the previously mentioned scaling. 
 If you mean "huge" like "massively complex, with a whole slew of screens, models, and features", then GAE might not be a good fit. Things like unit testing are hard on GAE, and there's not a built-in structure for your app that you'd get with something like (famously) (Ruby on) Rails, or (Python powered) Turbogears. 
 

 ie: there is no staging environment: just your development copy of the system and production. This may or may not be a bad thing, depending on your situation. 

 Additionally, it depends on the other Python modules you intend to pull in: some Python modules just don't run on GAE (because you can't talk to hardware, or because there are just too many files in the package). 

 Hope this helps 
 #1 using web2py on Google App Engine is a great strategy. It lets you get up and running fast, and if you do outgrow the restrictions of GAE then you can move your web2py application elsewhere. 

 However, keeping this portability means you should stay away from the advanced parts of GAE (Task Queues, Transactions, ListProperty, etc). 
 #2 The AppEngine uses BigTable as it's datastore backend. Don't try to write a traditional relational-database driven application. BigTable is much more well suited for use as a highly-scalable key-value store. Avoid joins if at all possible. 
 #3 I wouldn't worry about any of this. After having played with Google App Engine for a while now, I've found that it scales quite well for large data sets. If your data elements are large (i.e. photos), then you'll need to integrate with another service to handle them, but that's probably going to be true no matter what with data of that size. Also, I've found BigTable relatively easy to work with having come from a background entirely in relational databases. Finally, Django is a somewhat hidden, but awesome, "feature" of Google App Engine. If you've never used it, it's a really nice, elegant web framework that makes a lot of common tasks trivial (forms come to mind here). 
 #4 Google has just released version 1.3.0 of the SDK with support with a new Blobstore API for storage of files up to 50MB. See the post " App Engine SDK 1.3.0 Released Including Support for Larger User Uploads ". 
 #5 My only concern would be if for a huge website (that consumes lot of bandwidth and CPU) if hosting it yourself would not be cheaper in the end.
(The question is how fair are Google's quotas and if pricing is competitive at the very high-end.) 

 Other than that - enable billing, and let Google do all the scaling work for you. 
 #6 What about Google Wave? It's being built on appengine, and once live, real-time translatable chat reaches the corporate sector... I could see it hitting top 1000th... But then again, that's an internal project that gets to do special stuff other appengine apps can't.... Like hanging threads; I think... And whatever else Wave has under the hood... 
 #7 If you are planning on a 'huge' website, then don't use App Engine. Simple as that. The App Engine is not built to deliver the next top 1000th website. 

 Allow me to also ask what do you mean by 'huge', how many simultaneous users? Queries per second? DB load?