Question (ID-2722588): What web frameworks are available for python? What web frameworks are available with python? 

 Just to be clear, python is just a language so if you want to run it on a web server (like apache?) you NEED a web framework? 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 Take a look at This wiki page . It lists a few web frameworks for Python. 

 I personally happen to like Django, and web2py also looked very good. But no doubt others have different preferences. 

 Also have a look at some other SO questions: this one , or this one , and this one . All about Python web app frameworks. 

 But, as I said, you don't need it. They typically take a lot of work out of your hands, have premade login functionality, protect agains SQL Injection attacks and more of that stuff. You could do all of that yourself :) 
 #1 If you ask for a method as simple as posible to run python on a web server, you can use conventional cgi . 

 You can also use, for example, mod_python with Apache. 

 So the answer is no, you don't need necessarily a web framework 
 #2 The most obvious one is Django , it's very mature and quite popular. 

 I also found this list on python.org which describes the different frameworks available from basic, to full stack 
 #3 I've found Tornado to be quite good some a lot of things. It's much slimmer then Django, and it can handle requests asynchronously, making it great if you want to do any kind of long-poling requests. 
 #4 
 Just to be clear, python is just a language so if you want to run it on a web server (like apache?) you NEED a web framework? 
 

 No. Web frameworks are never required . They simply make your life easier. Any language can output HTML if you want it to, but frameworks take a lot of the work out of things. 
 #5 web2py is the easiest to start with. It is only one with a web based IDE (although you can use it the old fashion way like people use Django), a ticketing system that logs all errors, and code can run unmodified on Google App Engine. Its Database Abstraction Layer that supports 11 different backends. You can try it online without installation here . It has the most extensive free online documentation . It is less popular than Django because it appeared less than 3 years ago.