Question (ID-4101908): What is a good python learning resource? What is a good python learning resource? 
 Answers (Total-9): #0 I recommend Dive into Python . 
 #1 if you are looking for a book i'd like to suggest "Python essential reference" 
 #2 I'll definitely second Dive into Python. For anyone new to programming in general, however, Think Python is a great computer science learning book. 
 #3 How to Think Like A computer Scientist 

 Even as someone already familiar with programming principals this little PDF was great. It introduces the topics quite will and covers a wide range of programming paradigms and methodologies. I would recommend it to anyone, programmer or otherwise. 

 I will also second Dive into Python . 
 #4 Get a copy of IPython ... the enhanced interactive Python shell. 

 The interactive mode of Python is an excellent way to play with small snippets of code and learn how objects behave in a concrete way. Because Python has a relatively simple and highly consistent syntax, and such a rich collection of standard libraries you'll spend only a short time leaning the core language keywords and syntax and you can spend your whole career exploring the modules that come with it (and finding third party modules as your needs demand them). 

 For most higher level things you want to do your first question, when attempting to implement it in Python, should usually be: What has the community already done for me? What's the highest level at which I can start? How much of my solution can be built over the top if existing modules. 

 Need to safely work with temporary files and ensure that they'll be cleaned up properly on process exit? Look at tempfile.TemporaryFile() ... might need for it to be shared by multiple separate programs? Look at tempfile.NamedTemporaryFile() and so on. (Understanding the semantics of each so you know when you need to use one versus the other is the major part of the learning curve here). 

 Want to work with compressed files? Look at the zipfile and gzip and maybe tarfile modules. Need to deal with XML? Use any of the XML DOM, SAX, mini-DOM, or element tree modules (I gather there are good reasons to have so many of them). Need to handle real world HTML? Get Beautiful Soup . Naturally you'll probably use urllib2 to actually fetch that. et cetera. 
 #5 Dive into Python 
 #6 for beginners: 

 http://learnpythonthehardway.org/ 

 "The book is a very beginner book for people who want to learn to code. If you can already code then the book will probably drive you insane. It's intended for people who have no coding chops to build up their skills before starting a more detailed book." 

 For more advanced programmers, I reccomend Python Essential Reference (Beazly) 
 #7 I think Learning Python is much better than Dive Into Python . 

 People with programming experience often think a thick book (currently 1216 pages) like Learning Python is unnecessary, and they choose Dive Into Python instead. 

 However, Learning Python provides much more detail about both the language and convention perspective of Python. 

 It seems to me that those who learn Python by reading Dive Into Python tend to abuse convenient features like list-comprehension, just to feel "pythonic". 
 #8 The page titled " tutorial " in their online documentation might be a good start.