Question (ID-259160): Did anyone try Portable Python? I have recently discovered Portable Python as a very interesting tool. I am a linux user, and I am frutstrated when I come to machines that does not come "battery included". 

 This is cool because it's non obtrusive : I don't want to install Python in any windows that passed in my hands... 

 But I don't know if it's reliable. If I make a product exhibition with it, would it be risky ? 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 You may want to check out web2py . The windows executable includes python and does run without installation for example from a usb drive, like portable python. But it includes more goodies such as a web server, web based editor and plug and play web applications. 

 web2py is stable (currently version 1.46) 

 web2py exposes a python shell 

 web2py.exe -S yourappname -M
 

 There is also a web based python shell available. 
 #1 I have been using Portable Python for about 3 months and have had no problems with it. You don't get the features of Movable Python but Portable Python is free. 

 I have it on a thumbdrive that I take to work (Windows computers) so I can work on projects there. Then I can take it home and import the projects into Linux/Mac for refinement. 

 I have installed wxPython, wxGlade, and portable Django on the thumbdrive also, creating an all-in-one Python development environment. 
 #2 There is another alternative: Movable Python 

 From its web site: 

 
 Movable Python is a distribution of
 Python for Windows that doesn't need
 to be installed. It easily fits onto a
 USB memory stick or flash drive.
 Python on a stick. Smile 
 
 It includes an IDE and many common
 Python extensions, to make Movable
 Python a portable Build, Test, and Run
 environment. It has a nice GUI to
 launch programs and control its
 behaviour. 
 
 #3 I think ActivePython might be a better fit for what you're trying to do. It comes as a zip file that is easily usable on any Windows machine, is available for versions from 1.6 through 3.1, and doesn't carry any kind of "we'll eat a puppy if you use this in production" disclaimer. 
 #4 From the Download page: 

 
 Important! 
 
 This is beta software and it is NOT
 recomended for production
 environments. Recomended use is for
 development/showcasing/experimenting. 
 

 On the other hand, if you're doing product exhibition, you'll be doing it on a machine that you can test with before hand and make sure that everything works as expected. 
 #5 Do you want to make a portable demo of some python code? The better solution is to use Py2Exe or a similar tool and make a portable executable.