Question (ID-1764291): raw escape in python except last char Why in python I can't use: 

 r"c:\"
 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 When a string must contain the same quote character with with it's started, escaping that character is the only available workaround -- so the design alternative was either to make raw-string literals physically unable to contain their leading quote character, or keep the "backlash escapes" convention, even in string literals, just for quote characters. 

 Since raw-string literals were designed for handy representation of regular expression patterns (not for DOS / Windows paths!-), and in RE patterns a trailing backslash is never necessary, the design decision was easy (based on the real use case for raw-string literals). 
 #1 From the documentation 

 
 ... a raw string cannot end in a single backslash (since the backslash would escape the following quote character). 
 
 #2 Use "c:/" or "c:\\" . Raw string literals are for escaping escape-sequences, not for including literal backslashes, though they do work that way, except in this exact case. 
 #3 Its a known case I think, better use "c:\\" for that case. 
 #4 Even with raw strings, \" causes the " not to be interpreted as the end of the string (though the backslash gets into your string), so r"foo\"bar" would be a legal string. This is convenient enough when writing regex but not great for writing paths. 

 This is not a big deal as most of the time you should be using os.path and other modules to deal with your paths. 
 #5 found in Design and History FAQ http://docs.python.org/faq/design.html#why-can-t-raw-strings-r-strings-end-with-a-backslash 

 
 Raw strings were designed to ease
 creating input for processors (chiefly
 regular expression engines) that want
 to do their own backslash escape
 processing. Such processors consider
 an unmatched trailing backslash to be
 an error anyway, so raw strings
 disallow that. In return, they allow
 you to pass on the string quote
 character by escaping it with a
 backslash. These rules work well when
 r-strings are used for their intended
 purpose.