Question (ID-3217222): Beginner Python Practice? Well just getting into the flow of thing with Python. Reading a few books, finding it fairly easy as I already have some experience with C++/Java from school and Python is definetly my favorite thus far. 

 Anyway, I am getting a whole bunch of information on python, but haven't been putting it to much use. Thus, what I was wondering was if there are any sort of practice problems online that I can use? If anyone could point me in any sort of direction, I'd greatly appreciate it. 
 Answers (Total-7): #0 Try Project Euler : 

 
 Project Euler is a series of
 challenging mathematical/computer
 programming problems that will require
 more than just mathematical insights
 to solve. Although mathematics will
 help you arrive at elegant and
 efficient methods, the use of a
 computer and programming skills will
 be required to solve most problems. 
 

 The problem is: 

 
 Add all the natural numbers below 1000
 that are multiples of 3 or 5. 
 

 This question will probably introduce you to Python for-loops and the range() builtin function in the least. It might lead you to discover list comprehensions, or generator expressions and the sum() builtin function. 
 #1 The Python Challenge will not only let you exercise the Python you do know, it will also require you to learn about various popular third-party packages in order to solve some of the challenges. 
 #2 You'll find great beginner practice at http://singpath.appspot.com ... the "game" is interactive, gives you the ability to edit your answers, and the exercises are much more practical than the Python Challenge, plus there are multiple levels to choose from based on your skill level. If you're gonna compete, here are the current worldwide standings/rankings: http://singpath.appspot.com/ranking/10030 

 Most importantly, have fun, and welcome to Python! 

 ps. your experience puts you right in the heart of the target audience of my Python book, Core Python Programming , whose goal is to teach Python as quickly but as in-depth as possible. reviews, philosophy, and other info at http://corepython.com 
 #3 I found python in 1988 and fell in love with it. Our group at work had been dissolved and we were looking for other jobs on site, so I had a couple of months to play around doing whatever I wanted to. I spent the time profitably learning and using python. I suggest you spend time thinking up and writing utilities and various useful tools. I've got 200-300 in my python tools library now (can't even remember them all). I learned python from Guido's tutorial, which is a good place to start (a C programmer will feel right at home). 

 python is also a great tool for making models -- physical, math, stochastic, etc. Use numpy and scipy. It also wouldn't hurt to learn some GUI stuff -- I picked up wxPython and learned it, as I had some experience using wxWidgets in C++. wxPython has some impressive demo stuff! 
 #4 I always find it easier to learn a language in a specific problem domain. You might try looking at Django and doing the tutorial. This will give you a very light-weight intro to both Python and to a web framework (a very well-documented one) that is 100% Python. 

 Then do something in your field(s) of expertise -- graph generation, or whatever -- and tie that into a working framework to see if you got it right. My universe tends to be computational linguistics and there are a number of Python-based toolkits to help get you started. E.g. Natural Language Toolkit . 

 Just a thought. 
 #5 I used http://codingbat.com/ . A great website that not only takes one answer, like Project Euler, but also checks your code for more robustness by running it through multiple tests. It asks for much broader code than Project Euler, but its also much simpler than most Euler problems. It also has progress graphs which are pretty cool. 
 #6 You may want to take a look at Pyschools , the website has quite a lot of practice questions on Python Programming.