Question (ID-4210450): Seeking advice on choosing a framework for web development in python I'm yet another absolute beginner trying to get to grips with web development with python. I'm at a stage where I'm feeling a bit paralyzed by the Big Framework Questions: should I use one at all and, if so, which one is most appropriate given my circumstances. 

 I've read a lot of great responses to similar questions on this site that were really useful in guiding my first steps. 

 In previous posts on similar topics, many people have recommended Django. So far, I've gone through the tutorials for several of the popular frameworks that I've seen recommended here - Django, pylons, cherrypy, webpy, and a couple others from the python.org website - and am at the stage of feeling completely overwhelmed by the possible combinations of frameworks, python modules, apache modules, middleware options, etc. I haven't immediately 'taken' to any of them and am not sure which is/are worth spending a bit more time with, given my particular circumstances. I wondered if someone might be able to give me some advice. 

 Here are my constraints, considerations and background: 

 
 This isn't for work I have a lot of flexibility in terms of hardware/software/languages/etc. However, I would prefer to invest the time to learn how to do things in a safe, sensible, scalable way. 
 A :+:big:+: motivation for these projects is to learn more python and to brush up on my MySQL skills. I wouldn't want a framework to get in the way of my blossoming relationships with python and MySQL! 
 I'm a linux girl, running apache. :) 
 Staying with my current host provider (also running apache) them isn't crucial, but it would be highly convenient. I got a very simple test site working with mod_python, but I've since realised that I need to be a bit careful about the apache module I use if I want to stay with cheap hosting. After some heartache and tears, I've now got a test site working with fastcgi using Beaker for sessions and MyDQLdb to talk to my database. It works both on my local test environment and on my host provider, but at this stage, I'm quite happy to consider alternatives! 
 I have a quirky, ad hoc programming background - tiny bits of Fortran, C++ and Perl, some python for little around-the-home projects, a couple years of programming with an in-house scripting language for a job, reasonable familiarity with MySQL, basic html and css. I've never formally studied programming or software engineering, so very much appreciate good documentation and examples that don't assume too much! I've tended to take a procedural approach and am only just taking baby steps in object-oriented-land, so I still find some of the python examples a bit difficult to follow. (I often need to look at PHP tutorials for complete beginners to get the basic idea before launching into the python, which feels a little perverse as I don't know PHP.) I've never developed for the web before. 
 The project I have in mind involves lots of user interaction. The kind of things I'm interested in doing are closer to, say the flash-card hosting at http://flashcarddb.com to an out-of-the-box news website, blog or forum. Part of it is an adaptation of some code that ran on the command line that I'm trying to get going on the web. The MySQL database already exists. It will be a reasonable-sized project, and I'd like to make sure it's easy to expand, should I get carried away. 
 At this stage, the main thing that's looking annoying tedious is generating forms, validating data and doing all the stuff required to make the user experience smooth, pretty and cross-browser compatible. (I can make a simple form work, get the results and make the appropriate database query, but trying to make this look and feel nice is another matter entirely.) The UI stuff is what gives me the fear - in past projects, making nice user interfaces has taken more time than anything else but is what I'm least interested in doing. With a web application, I'm assuming that I'll eventually want to invoke ajax and am dreading the fiddleyness of css and javascript. PHP seems like it has some generic stuff like the php form builder class to make this a little less painful; I've not yet found anything quite that easy (for me) to plug in and run with for python, but I'm not even sure if what I'm looking for is a module, a framework, or a pipe dream. 
 I'm happy to throw my test script out the window at this stage if that's the sensible thing to do. I felt I had to start from basics to get my head around how the web worked and what a framework might actually do for me. I'm also happy to carry on and just add on to what I've started and add in little bits and pieces when/if I see the need. It's easy to change gears now, but if I get deep into the project and find I've made the wrong decision and have to rewrite from the ground up, I would weep. 
 

 Any advice about how to proceed in general - or frameworks in particular - would be most appreciated. I still don't know what I don't know, so would greatly value advice from anyone who has done this kind of thing before! I'd also welcome any advice people might have on good online resources that may not have come up using obvious Google search terms. 

 I do apologise for my cluelessness about all this - and apologies if this isn't an appropriate question for StackOverflow. I've found answers to various questions on StackOverflow before and really value it as a resource, but I'm not sure if this question might be deemed too subjective or repetitive! 

 Many thanks! 
 Answers (Total-10): #0 I'm using no-framework approach with these libraries: 

 
 werkzeug: lib for wrappers on request/response, nice handling for wsgi applications, has great dev server, and contrib modules for session management. 
 jinja2: template engine. Far more flexible that django templates 
 sqlalchemy: ask anyone - the best orm/expression builder around by far! Can run circles around django's orm. 
 

 I've tried django and spring - too heavy coupled, not flexible enough for my taste. Pylons can be a sound choice. Whatever you chose: use sqlalchemy and you won't regret it. There are good template engines, you can choose your own, but jinja2 is the best (and most used). Werkzeug is my personal choice since I simply trust the people from http://pocoo.org . 
 #1 I went straight from never using a framework, straight to Django and have never looked back. I use it for everything and anything! 

 I also had no knowledge of Python before using Django and learned it in tandem with Django. 
 #2 I know Django is the short and safe answer, but a very, very interesting and more flexible alternative would be Pyramid . 

 It's a mature framework that used to go by the name of repoze.bfg, now part of the Pylons project. While Django is monolithic, the Pylons/Pyramid project integrates several different components, each of them arguably better than their Django counterpart, or lets you swap them easily (for instance, ORM or templates). 

 Using Pyramid would give you a high combo bonus, since the consensus is that TurboGears v3 will be based on that as well. 
 #3 The short answer is: Django 
 #4 If you're looking for an all-in-one framework, Django is probably your safest bet, as it's probably the most widely-used of its kind. 

 If you decide that lightweight components are better than giant frameworks, here are some outstanding ones that you might try using together: 

 
 Flask 
 Jinja2 
 WTForms 
 SQLAlchemy 
 

 Since you mentioned mod_python, you should know that WSGI is the current standard for connecting web servers to Python web application frameworks. As such, mod_wsgi has replaced mod_python in Apache land. You might not have to deal with this stuff, though, since modern Python web frameworks have built-in test servers, and some (e.g. Django) are directly supported by various hosting services. 

 I have read good things about WebFaction , particularly regarding their support for python web applications. 

 Some day, depending on your needs, you might want to learn about NoSQL and Google's App Engine . 
 #5 Django if you need a "mainstream" and all-included kind of framework. 
 CherryPy if you hate magic and want a more pythonic and DIY kind of way. 
For something in between, do your own research. Nobody can answer this question other than yourself. 

 To deal with database, use SQLAlchemy , because it's mainstream and have no cons. 
 #6 Give Spring Python a look. Spring has had great success with Java. I think it's quite architecturally sound. 
 #7 In terms of doing things in a safe, sensible, scalable way, it doesn't get much more scalable than Google App Engine . It has its own datastore API that is different from MySQL, but more scalable. 

 You had mentioned generating forms from Python or from PHP. This is generally not such a great idea, because it increases user latency by forcing the user to wait on server-side text processing before seeing their page. It is generally best to use Python or PHP only for returning data or modifying data, and to serve static pages without running them through a text processor or interpreter. You can use JavaScript and XMLHttpRequest from a static page to fetch data from a Python-backed page, and then populate the content of the page. This allows the user to see the general layout of the page, and to have it fill out with content as the content becomes available. 

 Although you may dread the fiddly-ness of JavaScript, it's really not possible to have truly dynamic and interactive pages without it. Without JavaScript, the only way the page can change or update is by reloading the page, which requires yet another round-trip to your server, which is bad for latency. 
 #8 
 Here are my constraints, considerations and background: 
 

 Most of these are irrelevant. Hate to be rude, but it helps to focus, narrowly, on your problem. Fewer words. More information. Less personal background. 

 
 This isn't for work ... 
 

 Doesn't help anyone suggest a framework. 

 
 A :+:big:+: motivation for these projects... 
 

 Doesn't help anyone suggest a framework. They're all in Python. 

 
 Staying with my current host provider (also running apache) them isn't crucial, ... 
 

 If it isn't crucial to you, it doesn't matter in this question. This doesn't help anyone suggest a framework. 

 
 I have a quirky, ad hoc programming background - 
 

 Doesn't help anyone suggest a framework. Everyone's background is quirky. 

 
 The project I have in mind involves lots of user interaction. 
 

 Doesn't help anyone suggest a framework. HTML is a struggle; which has nothing to do with any framework. 

 
 The MySQL database already exists. 
 

 Only matters if you try to use it as-is. Be open to reworking your database. 90% of the time, your legacy database doesn't work well with frameworks and ORM's. Plan to discard one or two versions of the database before you learn how things work. 

 
 At this stage, the main thing that's looking annoying tedious is generating forms, validating data and doing all the stuff required to make the user experience smooth, pretty and cross-browser compatible. 
 

 Use Django. It does all this for you from the model. 

 
 trying to make this look and feel nice is another matter entirely. 
 

 That's why people use Flash/Flex, Dojo or other non-HTML front-end development tools. 

 
 making nice user interfaces has taken more time than anything else but is what I'm least interested in doing. 
 

 Perhaps you should find someone else to do this for you. 

 
 dreading the fiddleyness of css and javascript. 
 

 Welcome to the web. Either get over it now or find someone else. 

 
 I'm happy to throw my test script out the window at this stage if that's the sensible thing to do. 
 

 It's not "sensible". It's "mandatory". Your test script is unlikely to fit with any framework. 

 
 I'm also happy to carry on and just add on to what I've started 
 

 Don't. 

 
 if I get deep into the project and find I've made the wrong decision and have to rewrite from the ground up, I would weep. 
 

 Plan on weeping. You can never know in advance how things will turn out. Either get used to the idea of rework or find another project. Seriously. 
 #9 Mr Grouchy ses "Do it with php!". :-) 

 Seriously vanilla php is probably the easiest and simplest way to develop a web site. Its a mature well structured language, it has a massive amount of libraries and interfaces available from PEAR, and it runs efficiently, it is supported by almost all hosting companies and scales up tremeddously well. If you insist on using a framework then CAKE or Zend do the job. 

 Python has a number of drawbacks in this area: fragmentation -- there are just too may web frameworks none of which has really taken off, performance -- python still eats cpu cycles doing the simplest of tasks, support -- finding cheap and reliable python hosting is stil a pain.