Question (ID-3260334): What language should i learn after PHP/JS? i have about 5 years of work in PHP/JS/CSS and other web technologies , as web developer , i feel i should move to learn another languages , other things , but there is huge stack of languages and technologies today : JAVA/( Modern JAVA frameworks ) , C/C++ , Python , Ruby/ROR , Perl , Mobile development ...etc , and this make me confused .. 

 What language should i learn ? or what you suggest ? 
 Answers (Total-8): #0 May I suggest Lisp? : P 
 #1 Go for the mobile development - apps make a huge amount of money these days! 

 Even though it might be a little expensive to get started with... 
 #2 Depends entirely on what your end goal is . If you want to broaden your developer perspective, I would suggest: 

 
 MVC ( Django, Ruby on Rails ) 
 Functional programming ( Haskell, Lisp ) 
 Real OO languages such as Python and Ruby 
 VCS ( Git, Mercurial ) 
 Mobile Development ( Objective-C/Java for iPhone/Android ) 
 node.js ( event based server-side javascript ) 
 Linux ( manage servers by renting a VPS and setup a server from scratch; setup things like Apache, PHP, MySQL by yourself ) 
 VIM/Emacs ( increase your productivity by 50%+ ) 
 
 #3 Just to say something that I haven't seen anyone else say, yet. 

 Have you worked with any PHP frameworks, like CakePHP or symfony? I know you said you've worked with PHP, so maybe you have. And you're probably a far more advanced PHP programmer than I am, because my experience is fairly limited, but I just started looking into these different frameworks and it's been a great experience for me. It facilitates design, but it's also given me some insight into MVC, granted it does so at an abstract level since it does a lot of the work for me, but its been a good experience for learning some new concepts. 

 Maybe you already have experience with frameworks like these, and this is not to say you shouldn't go and learn other languages and platforms, and indeed learning other languages is great and I'm sure people will respond with some ideas for that. But since you have experience with PHP, it might be worth looking into some different ways that you can use that knowledge and still gain some new insight into other technologies. 
 #4 There's two competing languages to PHP, which is Ruby and ASP.NET. While ruby have the same background with PHP (aka Linux flavors), ASP.NET is like Microsoft flavour. 

 www.ruby-lang.org 
 www.asp.net 

 With JS, you know, learning JS never ends. You may master the syntax but there are tons of frameworks and things to do with JS. For example cappuccino framework. 

 www.cappuccino.org 
 #5 C# or java is the easy path. Lot of demand. But if you want to be different, objective-c is a nice choice ;) 
 #6 Ruby on Rails ! Great resources for learning ( http://railscasts.com/ , http://5by5.tv/ ), widely used, and excellent community. 
 #7 If you already know JS well, then I'd move on to something similar. Java and C# are similar to JS and PHP, so they shouldn't be too hard to get into. I would recommend learning C# and ASP.NET because the tooling is amazing. Once you've tried Visual Studio, you'll never use anything else. 

 But if you really don't know JS at an expert level, then you should focus learning that instead. You'll probably get a lot more out of knowing JS than if you try to teach yourself a more complex / robust programming language.