Question (ID-4819218): Looking for a complete developer ide? I'm searching for an open-source ide for ubuntu which should support jsp,java,js,jquery,html,python .. 
 Answers (Total-8): #0 Try Eclipse 

 You can install eclipse plugins for each of those languages. 
 #1 Vim/Gvim 

 By using plugins you can get almost every desired feature from an ide, without all the bloat. You also have the advantage of it being a customized environment. Only what you want is there, and nothing to get in the way. 

 There is an insanely steep learning curve, but it is well worth it, in my opinion. Once you learn vim, you can code like a ninja. 

 So if you want a highly customized, highly effective coding tool and are willing to spend the time needed to learn how to master this tool, give vim/gvim a try. Otherwise, use Eclipse. it's the best turn-key ide, imho. 

 Update: 
Here is some information on vim plugins , including how to "install" them. 
The following link contains a little more information about vim directories. 

 Finding a vim plugin can sometimes be a little bit of work. If you are looking for a particluar functionality, a good place to start is always vim online. I've added a few links at the end to lists of "must have" plugins to get you started. 

 Google can also be extremly helpful. If for example, you are looking for syntax highlighting for javascript, simply google vim javascript syntax highlighting . It may also be helpful to google vim language ide where language is any programming language. This can help find sets of plugins other people use to make coding in a language easier. 

 When trying to find the perfect set of plugins, remember, be patient and experiment. Vim is not a ready made ide. It's more like a "build your own" ide. While this requires a lot more extra work in the beginning, the end product is an ide customized exactly to your needs and your workflow. 

 Helpful links: 

 
 http://www.catonmat.net/series/vim-plugins-you-should-know-about 
 Favorite (G)Vim plugins/scripts? 
 http://spf13.com/post/the-15-best-vim-plugins 
 
 #2 With the right tweaks, you can make Vim / Emacs into a pretty functional IDE. 
 #3 IntelliJ from JetBrains will do all this magnificently. There is a community edition, but it's not as full-featured as the commercial edition. Worth the price and more. 
 #4 For web development, which is what you're talking about, give BlueFish a try. Personally, I'd recommend against Eclipse - it's far too bloated for what you may want to do :-) 
 #5 It really depends on what you mean by 'support'. Some criteria might include: 

 
 Syntax highlighting 
 Code completion
 
 Understanding class structures for automatic method completion 
 
 Documentation support (POD, javadoc, etc.) 
 Build support 
 Test support 
 

 I would advise strongly against paying for an IDE unless it gives you something that is significantly useful and worth the cost. There are enough free IDEs out there that paying for one should require some strong justification. 

 And IDE like Eclipse has the benefit of supporting plugins, so you can extend it as necessary. Vi &amp; Emacs have the same benefits. 
 #6 Did you try the Netbeans IDE for Ubuntu? It does a pretty job at that. Additionally, it is a full IDE/WYSIWYG editor. It has project management and a good UI, is my favorite. 
 #7 Honestly, I think gedit is pretty underrated. It typically comes with ubuntu and gnome. 

 http://projects.gnome.org/gedit/ 

 Clean native ui editor, decent language syntax support, and much lighter weight than eclipse while not being quite as hard core as vim.