Question (ID-1425048): Implementing Server Push Read about Server push here . 
I want to push data to client from my web application in real time. 
I was looking at TCP sockets as one of the options. 
For HTTP I found a variety of frameworks for Java, PHP, Python and others over here .
However I don't know whether any of these support Push. 

 
 What options and frameworks would you
suggest for implementing Server push? 
 What language would you advocate for implementing the same and why? 
 
 Answers (Total-8): #0 How about Orbited , it's very good and being used by Echowaves 
 #1 I'm using Orbited right now, it's great! 

 If you are doing chat or subscription type stuff use stompservice and orbited. 

 If you are doing 1 to 1 client mapping use TCPSocket . 

 I can give you some code examples if you want. 
 #2 Comet is the protocol you want. What Comet implementation is best, is a harder call. 

 If you're OK with Java (or, I guess, Jython), or .NET (where IronPython's a possibility), I suspect ( not having extensively tried them all!-) that stream hub must be a major contender. It'a typical "freemium" product -- you can get a free ("as in free beer";-) version, or you can try the pricey Web Edition, or the even-pricier Enterprise Edition; feature comparison is here (e.g., free edition: no https, no more than 10 concurrent users, no .NET). 
 #3 Ok, I'm using ASP.NET with PokeIn comet ajax library on my project. Also, I tried Atmosphere under JAVA.. My last choice was PokeIn.. Because, only server push support is not solving the problems. You will need some kind of client to server object serialization and object life time management. PokeIn covered all these needs for me. 
 #4 What about Ajax Push Engine ? 
 #5 I'm personally biased, but I like WebSync, for IIS/.NET . It integrates with IIS, so no other server software necessary, just a dll to add to your project. 
 #6 I believe xmpp implementation is one which is being use by a lot of big companies but the common thing is to use a comet server as well. 

 a lot of implementation in python for thoses you can google around. 
 #7 Have you tried StreamHub Push Server ?