Question (ID-4591994): What front-end and back-end technologies do Google and Facebook use? What technologies do Google and Facebook use for their back-end and front-end? 

 What are their database technologies, and languages they use to process the back-end data. 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 http://panela.blog-city.com/python_at_google_greg_stein__sdforum.htm 

 
 
 Where is Python used? 
 
 
 The Google build system is written in python. All of Google's
 corporate code is checked into a
 repository and the dependency and
 building of this code is managed by
 python. Greg mentioned that to create
 code.google.com took about 100 lines
 of python code. But since it has so
 many dependencies, the build system
 generated a 3 megabyte makefile for
 it! 
 Packaging. Google has an internal packaging format like RPM. 
 These packages are created using
 python. 
 Binary Data Pusher. This is the area where Alex Martelli is working,
 on optimizing pushing bits between
 thousands of servers 
 Production servers. All monitoring, restarting and data
 collection functionality is done with
 python 
 Reporting. Logs are analyzed and reports are generated using
 Python. 
 A few services including code.google.com and google groups. 
 Most other front ends are in C++
 (google.com) and Java (gmail). All
 web services are built on top of a
 highly optimizing http server wrapped
 with SWIG. 
 
 
 
 #1 I can tell you that Facebook uses PHP as a frontend presentation layer and backend is mostly MySQL and (for message search) Cassandra. 

 Google uses BigTable for backend repository (I don't know if they use MySQL or other technologies). 
 #2 Google makes use of Map Reduce to process huge amount of data. Facebook uses an open source implementation of Map Reduce called Hadoop . 
 #3 Heard a rumor that Facebook uses Erlang for its messaging system:
 http://gregosuri.com/how-facebook-uses-erlang-for-real-time-chat 
 #4 Google tree whales: Google File System , BigTable and MapReduce 
 #5 Since you are asking about both front-end and back-end, you maybe interested in the part inbetween: How they communicate between different systems. 

 For this Google and Facebook use Protocol Buffers and Thrift respectively.