Question (ID-3336787): Python/Web: What's the best way to run Python on a web server? I am leasing a dedicated web server. 

 I have a Python web-application. 

 Which configuration option (CGI, FCGI, mod_python, Passenger, etc) would result in Python being served the fastest on my web server and how do I set it up that way? 

 UPDATE : 

 Note, I'm not using a Python framework such as Django or Pylons. 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 I usually go the Apache + mod_wsgi route. It is pretty easy to set up. 

 To answer your question about speed, I pulled this from the provided link: 

 
 The mod_wsgi module is written in C code directly against the internal Apache and Python application programming interfaces. As such, for hosting WSGI applications in conjunction with Apache it has a lower memory overhead and performs better than existing WSGI adapters for mod_python or alternative FASTCGI/SCGI/CGI or proxy based solutions. 
 
 #1 Don't get carried away with trying to work out what is the fastest web server. All you will do in doing that is waste your time. This is because the web server is nearly never the bottleneck if you set them up properly. The real bottleneck is your web application, database access etc. 

 As such, choose whatever web hosting system you think meets your general requirements and which you find easy to setup and manage. Using something you understand and which doesn't require lots of time devoted to it, means you can then focus your valuable time on making your application perform better, thus reducing the real bottleneck. 
 #2 You don't usually just serve Python, you serve a specific web server or framework based on Python. eg. Zope, TurboGears, Django, Pylons, etc. Although they tend to be able to operate on different web server back-ends (and some provide an internal web server themselves), the best solution will depend on which one you use. 
 #3 Use Apache + mod_python . It's usually the easiest way and it performs very well. 

 Edit: additionally, as it turns out, it is also considered a dead project. So that might factor into your decision. That said, mod_wsgi is the preferred alternative. 
 #4 Tornado is an impressive high performance Python web server. It has it's own framework, but the speed/page load statistics are all the buzz right now. 

 Apache2 and WSGI is my other suggestion. 
 #5 You may use pure python wsgi server ( see benchmark ) with microframework (like Bottle, Flask)