Question (ID-1889967): Setting Python path while developing library module I am developing a library and an application that uses the library in Python 2.6. I've placed a "mylib.pth" file in "site-packages" so that I can import mylib from within my application. 

 I am using a DVCS so when I want to fix a bug or add a feature to the library I make a branch of the repository and work within that branch. To test my application with the changes I am making to the library I edit the path in "mylib.pth" to point to the new development branch. 

 This gets a little tedious if I have a few parallel branches of my library going on at one. I have to keep editing the "mylib.pth" file before testing to ensure I am testing against the correct version of my library. Is there a way to use the current path (i.e. the development branch of the library that I am current in) to set the library path when I invoke my application instead of using the "mylib.pth" in the global "site-packages" directory? 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 Suggested reading: Tools of the Modern Python Hacker: Virtualenv, Fabric and Pip . It addresses a number of problems with development and deployment of Python apps. 
 #1 Is virtualenv what you're looking for? From the description: 

 
 Imagine you have an application that
 needs version 1 of LibFoo, but another
 application requires version 2. How
 can you use both these applications?
 If you install everything into
 /usr/lib/python2.4/site-packages (or
 whatever your platform's standard
 location is), it's easy to end up in a
 situation where you unintentionally
 upgrade an application that shouldn't
 be upgraded. 
 
 #2 If you use setuptools, then you can say setup.py develop in your working tree, and it will do the .pth file manipulation for you. 
 #3 Sure, you can alter sys.path to add the current directory (or a subdirectory of it) to the search path. site.addsitedir is a good way to do it. Since you'd be doing this from Python you can have any sort of logic you like for deciding which directory to add; you could base it on os.path.normpath ​ing the current directory if it looks like a branch, or looking for the newest branch on-disc, or something else. 

 You could put this code in the sitecustomize.py module or other startup-triggered location. 
 #4 You might also consider using zc.buildout . It allows you to create entry points with customized python paths. 
 #5 I set my PYTHONPATH to point to the latest-and-greatest version. No editing. 

 export PYTHONPATH=.:/the/new/version