Question (ID-5611776): What are the comprehensive lint checkers for Python? I hear that there are several tools that let you check the code for common Python mistakes, like pylint and pyflakes. I'm looking for one that is comprehensive, correct and simple to integrate into a build (setup.py preferably or buildbot if good reasons). 

 Which one do you recommand and why ? 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 There are several lint-type programs for python: 

 
 pychecker - execs 
 pyflakes - parses 
 pylint - parses 
 pep8 
 

 All three have helped me find small issues and have their pros and cons. Unfortunately pylint requires tk and therefore X, so its a no go on my headless server vms where I often develop code. 

 There is a lot of discussion here . 
 #1 There is nothing like "the best". Toola like editor, source control systems etc. are widely known and documented. No need for a discussion why X is better than Y... discussed often enough. The choice of tools either depends on personal preferences or company constraints. So please ask a more precise question worth being amswered in detail. 
 #2 Integrating something like pylint into your build process isn't a very common thing for Python devs to do, at least in part because we don't have build processes. 

 You could just have pylint run on a cron job that checks out your trunk, runs it, and sends you a report -- or a report if it's different than yesterday. 

 Personally I use WingIDE Professional with the extra pylint panel . It's by no means perfect, and if your pylint is mis-configured it more or less silently fails, but when I'm doing some serious editing, it helps me figure out what I can remove from my list of imports, etc. WingIDE also has refactoring features, which work pretty well, but again with the dynamic nature of Python, are never perfect. Their search and replace tool is really the killer refactoring feature. 

 Another thing you should consider is integrating nosetests (or another unit testing framework) into whatever scheduled or automatic Q/A framework you have. 
 #3 This question is too broad so I will just list my tool chain FWIW. 

 Editting 

 emacs + python-mode + flymake + ropemacs. 

 flymake runs a process as you are editing a file, the process can be anything. I have flymake configured to fire off pyflakes and pep8. So I get indications in the file of pep8 violations, syntax errors, unused imports, variables declared but not used etc..... 

 rope is handy for jumping around declarations and a little bit of auto complete. It will also show you the docs and function signatures etc.... 

 I'm sure there's similar stuff for vim. And though my one colleague has not managed to get it running, I've been told wingide can use pyflakes and pep8. 

 Testing 

 nose + various plugins. In my emacs I bind F7(compile) to run nose, that way I get a buffer where I can jump to the errors and then jump to that line in the source code. 

 version control 

 i use mercurial 

 dependencies 

 buildout or virtualenv or both. depending on the project. Use what's best for your project. I put up with buildout because I develop fo appengine right now, and I prefer the recipes in buildout for the appengine application structure to the appengine monkey approach, but that's just me. 

 If I weren't developing for appengine I would probably stick with virtualenv. 

 continuous integration 

 jenkins is the easiest I have ever setup. basically it runs the same testsuite that I use on my compile command but also generates a coverage report. 

 I think being aware of what's out there and being able to morph it all to your needs of the project you are working on is better than looking for a "best of breed" solution, mainly because the best of breed solution just doesn't exist. 
 #4 The best tool is sitting in front of the keyboard which make the code good or bad. 
 #5 To answer a broad question with a broad answer. 

 What IDE to use for Python? Thers a lot of editors find one that helps you see what you might miss in notepad. 

 Hidden features of Python Learn what you can do with python.