Question (ID-801090): Looking for a PHP and/or Python RAD I am looking for RAD like environment for PHP and/or Python free or not does not matter. 

 It should have a visual environment where one can use a point and click interface so that it is possible to select objects with mouse and move them around. 

 I have looked at Delphi4PHP. The RAD part is fantastic, but I don't like the framework on which it is based VCL4PHP (vcl4php.sourceforge.net) is crappy. Just to deploy a simple Hello world application we will have to deploy 40MB of that framework. That is just stupid..... 

 I looked at Eclipse but it is only a code IDE. Does not have a visual way of designing a page/window. Did I miss any plugin that supports this feature? 

 I was suggested to give NetBeans IDE a close look so I also looked that up, but did not find what I wanted. 

 I have also looked up following but none of these are true RAD: 

 
 NuSphere PHPEd 
 VS PHP for Visual Studio 
 PHP Designer (not a designer by any means just a plain old IDE) 
 

 I have not been able to find any descent Python RAD tool also. 

 I have looked up Yes Software's Code Charge Studio (www.yessoftware.com) but it cannot be used to develop complicated applications like say for example an Accounting System or an Inventory Management App, etc.. It is useful but for very simple apps. Making changes to Visual part (referred as components by this people) is a nightmare. Finally it does not support Python. 
 Answers (Total-15): #0 Python and PHP both have a binding for GTK : 

 
 PyGTK for Python; 
 PHP GTK for PHP; 
 

 You can use Glade as a RADD to draw a GTK app. 

 GTK runs on Windows, Linux and Mac OS. 

 If you are looking for something embedding everything, I can think of SPE for Python, but you really can run Glade as stand alone. 

 Since any picture is worth 1000 words : 

 

 I let the PHP lovers choosing their language equivalent. 
 #1 I just remenbered some more tools that might be useful to you, besides WebDev: 

 
 PHPMaker 
 WaveMaker 
 

 For Python I'm gonna try the DialogBlocks later this evening. 
 #2 for python try BoaConstructor if you come delphi background its a good start. 
 #3 TurboPHP , and it's now open source project. 

 Also wxPython has GUI Builder. 
 #4 Delphi4PHP is the only I know of, back in the old days I also used Macromedia (now Adobe) Dreamweaver to generate some code, and if you set up a live site it kinda acts like a RAD IDE. Kinda. 

 For Python, I asked a similar question a couple of hours ago, I'm also interested in knowing such tool. 
 #5 There also webdev . It can generate PHP. 
 #6 Wingware looks like a pretty decent Python IDE 
 #7 I think Morfik is a RAD tool pretty much like what you're looking for. The language you program in is not PHP or Python, though. It uses ObjectPascal, c#, or Basic: 

 http://www.morfik.com 
 #8 I don't think Yogi is a PITA. He is discerning and this is very helpful. Since none of these tools quite hit the mark for him when one does it will be the right one and then all of us will benefit from his studied decision. 
 #9 [ChodeCharge Studio][1]
 

 http://www.codecharge.com 
 #10 You should really check out Vs.php Vs.php it is visual studio (standalone) or a visual studio plugin. Now if someone would do the same for xcode... 
 #11 Let me elaborate on CodeCharge Studio. I think you still can consider this system. 
Personally, I've been using it to develop very complex high-load data-base driven CRM applications, with 4.x version it even generates AJAX-based code and autocomplete, ajax-form submittion are piece of cake.
With CCS you will need sometimes some tuning, but the tricks are pretty much typical. So, CodeCharge Studio is still a choice for complex applications too. 
 #12 Since you mentioned Delphi, you can try ExtPascal - http://code.google.com/p/extpascal/ . There is a 3rd party designer support for this framework(Delphi and Lazarus). 
 #13 I found an IDE which will allow user to visually build Python based apps. The IDE is open souce and is from Japan. 

 Check it out! 

 link text 

 And 

 link text 

 I have to say that I have not used it. I just discovered it! 

 I am still searching for a good IDE for PHP which will allow me to build GUI visually. 

 Hope this helps others. 
 #14 The good news is that you won't miss it as soon as you familiarize yourself with a way of work when the responsibilities are shared. 

 Think it over: really the programmer is the right person to assemble the user interface? I think not even in case of a desktop application. 

 Programmer should write good code, separated display logic, and let all the presentation things to 

 
 information architects 
 user interface/experience specialists 
 here comes you, to write the code 
 graphic designers 
 sitebuilders 
 

 The -not so bad- news is that, there is no such tool for PHP and Python.