Question (ID-4752574): Python as a web scripting language? I've recently been developing with Python, and I absolutely love it. It's a huge step up from PHP as a quick scripting language (imagine, no crazy function names!), and I would love to be able to use it as a web development language. 

 I've heard about Django, but I want something a bit more simple. 

 I run Lighttpd, and I've already gotten a Python script to work, but I can't pass arguments to it via the URL, like http://localhost/index.py?foo=bar . Is there a function/library that allows this? 

 I could be going at this all wrong, so please tell me if I am. But I absolutely hate PHP, now that I've seen Python. ;) 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 If you want a dead simple but powerful framework, try Flask . 

 (Then learn some SQLAlchemy , and things will suddenly become even easier.) 
 #1 Assuming you're using a CGI interface, the cgi module. 
 #2 You can check out the so-starving project to see a simple application written in a variety of different python web frameworks, and choose one that you agree with! 

 
 I can't pass arguments to it via the
 URL, like
 .../index.py?foo=bar. Is
 there a function/library that allows
 this? 
 

 Any of the available Python frameworks allow you to custom-map your URL's to specific python functions. The above URL would look more like .../blog/foo/bar and your app would know what to do with the extra bits. 

 On a personal note, I second the recommendation for Flask - It's a great microframework for beginners as well as useful to pros working on small projects. 

 I've also fallen in love with the framework Pyramid, which is a bit more complex but suited very well for larger applications. 
 #3 I can recommend Django very highly. It's not that complicated. What I think you're looking for at the moment, however, is http://webpy.org/ . 
 #4 You can use CGI, but it's somewhat counterintuitive and pretty painful to work with (compared to the alternatives). If you'd like to ease that pain, I'd suggest using a framework. There are quite a few frameworks out there, the most popular being Django, Pylons, and a few others. You can see a full list here and decide for yourself. 

 If you're looking for something full-stack, Django. If you want something small, Flask, web2py, and a number of others work. 
 #5 You can use WSGI which is a standard interface between web servers and Python web applications or frameworks. This tutorial is really helpful for getting started with WSGI. It includes parsing GET and POST requests (as you mentioned in the question).