Question (ID-2775049): Good looking programs that are built using wxPython for their UI I need inspiration and motivation so I'm trying to find examples of different programs that have interesting and attractive UI's created free using wxPython. 

 My searches have been slow to find results. I'm hoping you guys know of some of the best ones out there. 

 btw, I've seen these:
 http://www.wxpython.org/screenshots.php 

 and the list under "Applications Developed with wxPython" on the wxPython Wikipedia page. 

 Update: only need Windows examples 
 Answers (Total-10): #0 The wxPython Demo 
Some nice guis can be found in the wxpython demo . Actually the demo is a GUI ;-) 

 GUI2Exe 
Another interesting example is GUI2exe from Andrea Gavana an expert on wxpython and a prolific widget creator. 

 SPE 
And finally, my recommendation is Stanis python editor (SPE) . Here you will find all kind of stuff (interpreter shell embedded, third party applications neatly integrated in the main program, code editor, and more...) everything running on wxpython. SPE is just about good design both in terms of code and of usability. It runs in windows and linux. Stani is also the author of Phatch another application based on wxpython mentioned in one of the comments as a good example of design. These and other facts about this guy are not coincidences... 

 DABO 
I forgot to mention Dabo : 

 
 Dabo is a 3-tier, cross-platform
 application development framework,
 written in Python atop the wxPython
 GUI toolkit. And while Dabo is
 designed to create database-centric
 apps, that is not a requirement. Lots
 of people are using Dabo for the GUI
 tools to create apps that have no need
 to connect to a database at all. 
 

 Dabo has a demo GUI build-in that allows to create/access your database and manage the data. 

 Editra 
Ooops I forgot also editra a multilanguaje editor/IDE (still I prefer SPE although SPE is python specific). One interesting feature is that Editra can be extended with plugins. 

 I use all this programs myself in windowsXP. 

 Later Edit : two more applications using wxpython: 

 PyChem 
Another application I use for my research tasks is PyChem . PyChem is an application for data analysis (classification, PCAs, etc). Like Gui2Exe, but differently to others GUIs mentioned above, it uses 'new style' widgets ('2D feeling'), so it is interesting in this respect. It shows how to implement data grids and several kind of graphics, and makes intensive use of numpy/scipy and biopython libraries. 

 BoaConstructor 
Not sure if it has been mentioned before. BoaConstructor is one of the classic python IDEs. I have not used it very often myself because I feel more comfortable with SPE combined with wxglade (hell! wxglade is another wxpython application!). It combines GUI building with code building. Unfortunately I'm not sure about how alive the project is. Maybe you should check SVN because the last builds were made in 2007. 
 #1 If you're on Debian or Ubuntu, there's a neat tool called apt-rdepends which lists package dependencies. 

 apt-rdepends --reverse python-wxtools 

 This gives me a list of three programs that apparently depend on wxPython: 

 
 model-builder 
 pyragua 
 spe 
 

 Not that many, and SPE was already mentioned; but for the next time, now you know how to find them :-) 
 #2 I'm a contributer to Phatch so that may sound a bit biased. But phatch has a clean, simple yet great looking UI. We gave a talk about it in PyCon 2010: Cross platform application development and distribution . You can find more details and tips in our paper. Especially in the Cross-Platform GUI Development section . All the GUI examples use wxPython. 

 The paper focuses on solving cross platform issues and making good design decision. But it can still help even if you are only developing for windows. 
 #3 Mockup Screens is a Windows program written in wxpython. 

 Screenshots here . 
 #4 Task Coach uses some pretty advanced widgets + AUI. 
 #5 It's a game tool, but Wrye Mash has a good GUI and uses wxPython. It uses colors heavily and plenty of other features, and looks and feels like any other GUI. 

 http://wryemusings.com/Wrye+Mash.html 
 #6 Ulipad IDE is quite good looking program written in wxPython 
 #7 I've tried to maintain native platform consistencies with dicompyler via wxPython. Some widgets are custom, some are drawn using wxGraphicsContext and one of the widgets is using matplotlib. 
 #8 The SaaS Test Management software testuff . 

 Check the bottom of the Services page to see the Python tools they used, including wxPython. 
 #9 Trelby is a screenwriting program written in wxPython. 

 http://www.trelby.org 

 The editor is a custom control, and so is the TAB. So a large part of the interface is tuned to the program's needs.