Question (ID-1211463): Simple non-web based bug tracker There's a ton and and a half of questions and even more answers here concerning people looking for bug trackers. However all of them (that I found) seem to be about web based solutions. Since I'm working on a local project where I don't want to set up a web / DB server, and I don't want to use a hosted tracker either, I'm looking for something that runs locally. 

 
 very preferably open-source 
 pure Python or (at least) Windows executable 
 no need for a database server (sqlite is obviously fine) 
 Doesn't have to be fancy, just the basic bug / issue tracking functionality; just a little bit more than my current TODO text file or an Excel table. 
 

 Any suggestions? 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 Trac might be a bit too over engineered, but you could still run it locally via tracd on localhost. 

 It's: 

 
 opensource. 
 pure Python 
 uses sqlite 
 

 But as I said, might be too complex for your use case. 

 Link: http://trac.edgewall.org 
 #1 If you don't need to share your bug tracker system with a team (i.e., it's okay to have it isolated to your computer) I would recommend using Tiddlywiki . Technically it's web-based, but it's entirely encapsulated within a single HTML document and requires no database or server whatsoever (only a web browser) so I think it follows the spirit of what you are wanting. It's extremely customizable since it's 100% HTML/CSS/javascript. I have been using a tiddlywiki as a project notebook for years, keeping track of my to-do list, bug list, and general project documentation in one centralized, cross-referenced place. You can also find all sorts of tiddlywikis that you can download pre-configured for productivity (for example, TeamTasks , MonkeyGTD , or GTDTiddlyWiki Plus ). 
 #2 I'm surprised nobody has mentioned Roundup . 

 It meets all your criteria, including not requiring a web-based interface (as per your specification, and unlike the accepted answer which suggested Trac). 

 Roundup is: 

 
 Open source 
 Pure Python 
 Supports SQLite 
 Not fancy, focuses on solid bug tracking 
 

 And as a significant point of differentiation, it has command-line and email interfaces in addition to a web interface. 

 It's very easy to get started - I suggest you take it for a spin. 
 #3 Maybe Fossil is of any use to you? 

 It is actually a DVCS but it also integrates a bugtracker and wiki, very much like trac (although I like trac, don't get me wrong). And its webbased, on the other hand the installation is supossedly dead simple. 
 #4 Proprietary TestTrack ( http://www.seapine.com/ttpro.html ) has a client edition that will those things. We use it at work and I'm very happy using it. 

 Maybe you can check out this wikipedia article for hints 
 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_issue_tracking_systems 
 #5 Do yourself a favor. Get over this "must not be web based" obsession, Install a local WAMP stack on your PC or on a LAN server. Now, you can install your own wiki . And something like Trac. I'd like to find an implementation of google code's bugtracker and integrated wiki thats runnable locally - Trac seems to be the closest. 

 You have also installed a local SVN server? Even for personal projects the ability to track changes over time. revert etc. and integration with Trac are too good to pass up even for purely 1 man projects.