Question (ID-482305): Java Scientific Packages similar to SciPy? I've been looking around the internet for a Java scientific package that is "similar" to Scipy. The only thing I have really found is JScience but it seems not to offer plotting and such. Does anyone know of a good scientific package for Java? 
 Answers (Total-10): #0 I'm looking for similar packages in this question . Here is a summary of what's shown up there so far: 

 
 Apache Commons Math 
 Java Numerics 
 Colt 
 Matlib 
 

 My personal experience is focused primarily in Apache Commons Math where it is certainly working for our needs. 

 We also use JFreechart at work. That is less of a numerical method / scientific package and much more focused on just getting your values on the screen in some useful form. 

 Your mileage may vary but hopefully this will aid your search. 
 #1 I had really good results with Colt . 

 Colt provides a set of Open Source Libraries for High Performance Scientific and Technical Computing in Java. 
 #2 Look at jHepWork ( http://jwork.org/jhepwork ).
 It has many Java libraries for numerical analysis and advanced plotting 
 for functions, histograms, (x-y) scatter plots 

 SC 
 #3 You can try Michael Thomas Flanagan's Java Scientific Library . It's a very good library, plots graphs and it's free :)
Someone also told me about GNU library but i've never used it myself. 
 #4 For plotting you can use JFreeChart , a really nice open source library. You'll have to combine it with another library to get all of the functionality you're asking for, though. 
 #5 You might want to check out this collection of Java numerics packages. 
 #6 Have a look at MathEclipse . It is an open source project based on Eclipse. It supports all kinds of different user interfaces. It is easy to use and flexible. 

 Even if it is not exactly what you need, keep reading down the page. It mentions a lot of other technologies that might be an even closer fit. 

 Both MathEcliipse and JScience look like incredibly outstanding tools for making powerful mathematics very easy and accessible for users of Java programs. 

 You could also take a look at Frink , which says you can interface it to your favorite plotting libraries. 

 I have used JFreeChart before and found it very simple to use. Others must too. I have found it embedded in some other well known Java projects. 
 #7 If you have a Java library, you can script using anything like Groovy, Scala, Jyphon, JRuby, Javascript, etc. etc. 

 Here is an example to script math in Groovy using SuanShu: 

 http://www.numericalmethod.info/wiki/numericalmethod/wiki/ScriptingSuanShu 
 #8 If you must use the library and no Java equivalent exists, can you import the package from Jython ? 
 #9 This is what is done in jHepWork project . There are tons of examples how to call Java scientific packages from Jython. In fact, the entire jhepwork was built from the ground of calling Java packages from scripting languages (such as Jython)