Question (ID-698): Is there an IDE that provides code completion for Python I am quite fond of the Intellisense code completion baked into Microsoft Visual Studio. I find that I only type 2 to 4 characters of any given keyword which drasticaly speeds up my coding. Now that I have been spending time writing some Python code I find myself reaching for ctrl+space. 

 Are there any IDEs that support code completion in Python? I do my python development on a Mac so an OS x tool would be preferable. It seems like the doc string property of Python methods is a perfect match for inline API discovery. Answers (Total-30): #0 Actually, PyDev plugin for Eclipse has a full support for code completion (try PyDev Extensions too). You can easily try it here . Another editor worth mentioning is WingIDE , which is really powerful. For more on Python editors check this page . 

 I use Aquamacs with ropemacs on my Mac, but that's an ultra geeky setup :) #1 The free Komodo Edit app from ActiveState includes code completion. 

 It's provided via XML files that detail the API(s) you are using. 

 It is cross platform and thus works on Windows, Linux and Mac. 
 #2 Vim's OmniComplete has the same fun intellitext-style popups and everything for auto completion. 

 http://vimdoc.sourceforge.net/htmldoc/version7.html#new-omni-completion #3 It's also possible to turn VIM into a respectable Python IDE: 

 http://blog.sontek.net/2008/05/11/python-with-a-modular-ide-vim/ 

 EDIT: The link seems to have changed to (thanks hasen j): 

 http://www.sontek.net/post/Python-with-a-modular-IDE-%28Vim%29.aspx 
 #4 I have tried a lot of python IDE's and the best one I like is PyScripter . Its easy to use and has nice code completion. 
 #5  Komodo Edit from the Open Komodo project has the best auto-completion and code/text introspection I've ever seen on an editor - for python as well as a number of languages. It reads from your source, rather than requiring any particular configuration. (It even manages to be able to edit Bash, SQL and structured text files intelligently.) You can also attach libraries/modules to it, so you have documented access to them. 

 I would highly recommend the free Komodo edit. 
 #6 On Windows, PyScripter is a pretty good free and open-source IDE that provides code completion (as well as debugging and other features). It doesn't really parse doc strings or other annotations, so it has limits to the completions that can be offered. 

 WingIDE is a cross-platform (Windows, Linux, Mac) commercial IDE. It's pretty full featured and you can provide annotations in comments as hints to the intellisense. There's a free version of Wing, but I don't know if that contains that feature. A trial version is available for all the versions. 
 #7 I've found that Eclipse/PyDev's autocomplete feature more powerful than Komodo Edit's, but that's to be expected. Although I'm a big autocomplete fan, I still find myself using Komodo more because it does a much better job of staying out of your way when you just want to write a script. #8 I'm surprised no one has mentioned SPE ( pythonide.blogspot.com ). It has code completion not only with the python libraries but the code you write as well, it's not import only it will complete code in the same file as well. It also has a whole bunch of features like UML diagram tool, and pydoc generation. 
 #9 To be really worthwhile the autocomple should read from your source, not just an API listing. It sounds like both Komodo and the Eclipse plugin do not support that. Is there any option that does? #10 There is a full Komodo IDE from ActiveState which will allow you to debug and step through Python code as well as do the code completion. I use it at work for Perl and PHP development (it covers Perl, Python, Ruby, TCL and PHP) and it works really well. I use it on a PC, but I know it works for Macs as well. Of course, this one you have to pay for over the free Komodo Edit , but you do get a lot for your money. 
 #11 I'm not sure how well this would transfer to a Mac, but adding auto completion is easy in linux. 

 In your .pystartup.py file, add the following lines. 

 import readline
readline.parse_and_bind("tab: complete")
del readline
 
 #12 Emacs and vim both have autocomplete. 
 #13 I use TextMate on my Macintosh. With the Python/Django bundles it's very usable (and mac-like, which is important to me... emacs/aquamacs/xemacs make me context-switch from the rest of my applications). #14 Actually PyDev is worth while and I've found it to be the best of all the editors for Python. It seems though, that Pydev extensions (which are nonfree) would make the perfect couple. Too bad that these aren't free (autoimport and other stuff from PyDev extensions are really nice). 

 Two other editors I've been using with python so far are Eric and UliPad (mostly on slower computers). Vim is also great, but I couldn't get it to autocomplete on Windows somehow :-( 
 #15 WingIDE (www.wingware.com) is by far superior in terms of code completion and being "Python-aware" in general to any Python editor or IDE out there (I've looked at PyDev, Komodo, and others mentioned here). WingIDE is not free, but being under $200 for a full-blown single-user version makes it easy to talk even the cheapest manager into the purchase. Take it for a free trial first and experiment with all the options. I've used it for about 3 years now and would not think of writing/debugging Python code without it. 
 #16 Eclipse will do it, but only for imported objects. Sadly not for objects in your own source. #17 @Leon Yes, Komodo Edit is available for the Mac as well as for Windows. In fact, I use it on both platforms, and I'm extremely happy with it. 

 One thing to keep in mind: it's not a full blown IDE. It's more of a text editor with some project features and good syntax highlighting and code completion. If you're looking for something as beefy as Eclipse or Visual Studio, Komodo Edit may seem a little stripped down. On the other hand, Komodo is really, really easy to find your way around and doesn't have nearly the mental overhead of learning a new IDE like Eclipse. 

 I personally love Komodo Edit and recommend giving it a whirl. 

 Eric Sipple 

 edit: One other thing about Komodo Edit if you're used to Visual Studio (like I was when I started using it). Its code completion requires you hit Enter/Return to finish what you're writing, unlike Visual Studio. I find myself hitting the wrong key for the first couple of lines of code if I fire up Komodo after getting home from work. #18 Here you can find a complete list of editors for Python: 

 http://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonEditors 

 For me, the best editor is PyDev in Eclipse. Especially the debugging is nice. #19 Boa Constructor is free, OpenSource and developed in Python + wxPython. It supports auto completion pressing Ctrl+Space, works OK for me. #20 Not an OSX editor, but for those working with IronPython on Windows, there is a community maintained edition of Visual Studio available configured for working with IronPython and providing full Windows Forms and WPF designer support. 
 It can be accessed from its home on CodePlex . #21 eric4 does the job very well for me: http://die-offenbachs.de/eric/index.html #22 pydev plugin for Eclipse is the best option for now !! Also since it is an open source project you can extend it if you didnt like any feature #23 The best editor for the Mac IMO is TextMate . It's got a python bundle that will do what you're looking for. It's got bundles for a zillion other languages as well. 

 Well worth the price. 
 #24 I have heard (disclaimer: I have no personal experience with it) that the Python editing for NetBeans, done to support Jython, has nice code completion and other features. 

 Here's a link to a relevant post on multi-lingual NetBeans by Tor Norbye, a NetBeans wizard. 
 #25 The pay version of Komodo IDE has the best autocomplete of any of the IDEs I have personally tried. PyDev's autocomplete is ok, but really don't care of Eclipse unless I am working with Java/J2EE. #26 The free Komodo IDE definitely does parse your own modules/source and include that in the code completion. It is not limited to built in Python APIs. #27 
 To be really worthwhile the autocomple should read from your source, not just an API listing. It sounds like both Komodo and the Eclipse plugin do not support that. Is there any option that does? 
 

 The free Komodo editor performs its autocompletion on your source, not an API listing. It's what I use for GAE development, the only Python I do. 
 #28 TextMate is the best all around editor for any kind of language for the OSX. It doesn't provide intellisense type autocomplete, but does something I find more useful. Type a partial word and hit ESC. It will select the word nearest to where you are typing that matches your start string and input it. Hit ESC again to scroll through more options. There is a Windows clone called e . 
 #29 @Sebastjan I started using Aquamacs on my Mac for text editing, but I felt like it lost some of the "emacs style". Now I'm using CarbonEmacs, which is older but it looks more like the original :)