Question (ID-156853): What is the best SNMP implementation for Python? I'm doing some GUI prototyping with Python for an SNMP application. Looking around there seem to be a number of python libraries I could use. As I'm prototyping I value a nice clean easy API over speed and preferably a commonly packaged library. Obviously the package should be open source. So far I've been looking PySNMP, Twisted-Snmp, pynetsnmp and seafelt's libsnmp. 
 Answers (Total-4): #0 Of the libraries you mention I'd single out the python net-snmp library and pysnmp. One of my criteria for choosing well supported libraries is are they in debian/ubuntu and these both pass that test. 

 Net-snmp does come with python bindings . Net-snmp is in some ways the de-facto snmp library (for linux at least) so it is probably a good choice in that respect. However net-snmp is an extrememly large and gangly C library (which I've spent rather a lot of time hacking on and reading the source code) which is a downside. 

 The other alternative is a pure python snmp library - pysnmp which seems like a sensible choice, though I haven't actually tried that one. The twisted wrapper for it could come in handy. 

 If I was starting a new SNMP development I'd try pysnmp to see how well it works, but the old faithful (py)net-snmp is always there if you need it. 

 If you just want a bit of light usage of snmp then you can use the net-snmp command line tools very easily, eg 

 snmpget -c password host -v1 enterprises.318.1.1.12.2.3.1.1.2.1
 

 To read the power usage of an APC powerbar, which would work fine for prototyping I would have thought. 

 [edit: one year later] 

 I've now had a chance to try the pysnmp library. 

 I wasn't happy with the stable branch 2.x, but the development 4.x works and has a lots of good features, including 

 
 MIB loading 
 Reasonably simple oneliner interface 
 Full support of set/get/walk with bulk versions of those 
 Sync and Async interface 
 Support for server (agent) and client (manager) 
 

 I found it moderately complicated to work with, but I managed to work it out with help from the docs and the source code. 

 Top tip: set os.environ['PYSNMP_MIB_DIR'] to point to directories with your own converted mibs in, and use build-pysnmp-mib to make them, or if that doesn't work 

 smidump -k -f python My-MIB.txt | libsmi2pysnmp &gt; My-MIB.py
 
 #1 Net-Snmp has python bindings. Very simple (command-line like functions) access to SNMP functionality. If you use the Net-Snmp trap daemon, you can direct trap info to python (or any other language) scripts. 
 #2 The most active project of "Security not my Problem" seems to be pycopia SNMP . I have no experience with any of them, but if you have troubles finding the correct one have a look at the mailinglist archives of the libraries to find the most active one. Those usually have the better API/implementation or at least more users. 
 #3 I say the one I wrote last weekend: 

 http://code.google.com/p/multicore-snmp/ 

 Full process based API to Net-SNMP which supports V1-V3.