Question (ID-43315): Can I write native iPhone apps using Python Using PyObjC , you can use Python to write Cocoa applications for OS X. Can I write native iPhone apps using Python and if so, how? 
 Answers (Total-10): #0 You can use PyObjC on the iPhone as well, due to the excellent work by Jay Freeman (saurik). See iPhone Applications in Python . 

 Note that this requires a jailbroken iPhone at the moment. 
 #1 Not currently, currently the only languages available to access the iPhone SDK are C/C++ and Objective C. 

 There is no technical reason why this could not change in the future but I wouldn't hold your breath for this happening in the short term. 

 That said, Objective C really isn't that scary... 
 #2 Yes you can. You write your code in tinypy (which is restricted Python), then use tinypy to convert it to C++, and finally compile this with XCode into a native iPhone app. Phil Hassey has published a game called Elephants! using this approach. Here are more details, 

 http://www.philhassey.com/blog/2009/12/23/elephants-is-free-on-the-app-store/ 
 #3 An update to the iOS Developer Agreement means that you can use whatever you like, as long as you meet the developer guidelines. Section 3.3.1, which restricted what developers could use for iOS development, has been entirely removed. 

 Source: http://daringfireball.net/2010/09/app_store_guidelines 
 #4 It seems this is now something developers are allowed to do: the iOS Developer Agreement was changed yesterday and appears to have been ammended in a such a way as to make embedding a Python interpretter in your application legal: 

 SECTION 3.3.2 — INTERPRETERS 

 Old: 

 
 3.3.2 An Application may not itself install or launch other executable
 code by any means, including without
 limitation through the use of a
 plug-in architecture, calling other
 frameworks, other APIs or otherwise.
 Unless otherwise approved by Apple in
 writing, no interpreted code may be
 downloaded or used in an Application
 except for code that is interpreted
 and run by Apple’s Documented APIs and
 built-in interpreter(s).
 Notwithstanding the foregoing, with
 Apple’s prior written consent, an
 Application may use embedded
 interpreted code in a limited way if
 such use is solely for providing minor
 features or functionality that are
 consistent with the intended and
 advertised purpose of the Application. 
 

 New: 

 
 3.3.2 An Application may not download or install executable code.
 Interpreted code may only be used in
 an Application if all scripts, code
 and interpreters are packaged in the
 Application and not downloaded. The
 only exception to the foregoing is
 scripts and code downloaded and run by
 Apple’s built-in WebKit framework. 
 
 #5 The iPhone SDK agreement is also rather vague about whether you're even allowed to run scripting languages (outside of a WebView's Javascript). My reading is that it is OK - as long as none of the scripts you execute are downloaded from the network (so pre-installed and user-edited scripts seem to be OK). 

 IANAL etc etc. 
 #6 You can do this with PyObjC, with a jailbroken phone of course. But if you want to get it into the App Store, they will not allow it because it "interprets code." However, you may be able to use Shed Skin , although I'm not aware of anyone doing this. I can't think of any good reason to do this though, as you lose dynamic typing, and might as well use ObjC. 
 #7 Technically, as long as the interpreted code ISN'T downloaded (excluding JavaScript), the app may be approved. Rhomobiles "Rhodes" framework does just that, bundling mobile Ruby, a lightweight version of Rails, and your app for distribution via the app-store. Because both the interpreter and the interpreted code are packaged into the final application - Apple doesn't find it objectionable. 

 http://rhomobile.com/products/rhodes/ 

 Even after the latest apple press release - rhodes apps (mobile ruby) are still viable on the app-store. I'd find it hard to believe that tinyPy or pyObjC wouldn't find a place if there is a willing developer community. 
 #8 The only significant "external" language for iPhone development that I'm aware of with semi-significant support in terms of frameworks and compatibility is MonoTouch , a C#/.NET environment for developing on the iPhone. 
 #9 Newer versions of the iPhone SDK licensing agreement disallow jailbreaking. So while it is possible to do what you are looking to accomplish, there is no legal way to do it at the moment.