Question (ID-1994703): Which programming languages can I use on Android Dalvik? In theory, Dalvik executes any virtual machine byte code, created for example with the compilers of 

 
 AspectJ 
 ColdFusion 
 Clojure 
 Groovy 
 JavaFX Script 
 JRuby 
 Jython 
 Rhino 
 Scala 
 

 Are there already working versions of bytecode compilers for Dalvik available for other languages than Java? 
 Answers (Total-4): #0 
 At launch, Java was the only officially supported programming language for building distributable third-party Android software. 
 Android Native Development Kit (Android NDK) which will allow developers to build Android software components with C and C++ . 
 In addition to delivering support for native code, Google is also extending Android to support popular dynamic scripting languages . Earlier this month, Google launched the Android Scripting Environment (ASE) which allows third-party developers to build simple Android applications with perl , JRuby , Python , LUA and BeanShell . For having idea and usage of ASE , refer this Example link . 
 Scala is also supported. For having examples of Scala, refer these Example link-1 ,  Example link-2 , Example link-3 . 
 Just now i have referred one  Article Here  in which i found some useful information as follows: 

 
 programming language is Java but bridges from other languages exist (C# .net - Mono, etc) . 
 can run script languages like LUA , Perl , Python , BeanShell , etc.
 
 
 I have read 2nd article at Google Releases 'Simple' Android Programming Language . For example of this, refer this . 
 Just now (2 Aug 2010) i have read an article which describes regarding " Frink Programming language and Calculating Tool for Android ", refer this links Link-1 , Link-2  
 On 4-Aug-2010, i have found Regarding RenderScript . Basically, It is said to be a C-like language for high performance graphics programming, which helps you easily write efficient Visual effects and animations in your Android Applications. Its not released yet as it isn't finished. 
 
 #1 Scala works very well. 

 I'm programming my Android application projects in Scala ( Website written in Chinese with some screenshot , source code @ GitHub ), and it is pretty easy to setup the evnviroment (without IDE, using SBT as build tool). 

 It could access every API in Android SDK, so anything you could do in Java, you could do it in Scala too. 

 You may check this blog entry to see how to build Android application with Scala and SBT. 
 #2 I haven't played with it but I know that Scala works. 

 http://www.scala-lang.org/node/160 
 #3 The dynamically typed languages wont be possible until Dalvik supports JIT (Just In Time) compiling. I believe there is JIT support in one of the experimental Eclair branches, but it is not yet officially available/supported in Android.