Question (ID-2123369): What's the best solution for OpenID with Django? There are at least half a dozen Django apps that provide OpenID authentication for Django: 

 
 django-openid 
 django-openid-auth 
 another django-openid-auth , which seems to be dead 
 django-authopenid 
 django-socialauth (which also provides authentication with Twitter and Facebook accounts) 
 django-socialregistration (has Facebook and Twitter authentication, too) 
 django-openid-consumer , a fork of Simon Willison's original django-openid. Seems more suited for simple blog comments than a full fledged registration workflow 
 

 I played around with a couple of them. Simon Willison's django-openid made a good impression, but as he is at the forefront of trendsetting in Djangoland, I sometimes have difficulties wrapping my head around his trends (e.g. the whole dynamic urlpatterns system in django-openid). What's more, I couldn't get login to work with Google. 

 django-authopenid made a good impression, and it seems to have good integration with django-registration . django-socialauth and django-socialregistration have support for Twitter and Facebook, which is definitely a plus. Who knows if and when Facebook will start to be an OpenID provider...? socialauth seems to have its share of problems , though. 

 So, what is the best OpenID app out there? Please share any positive (and negative) experience. Thanks! 
 Answers (Total-6): #0 The one that has proven to work best for me, and which seems most up-to-date is the one over at launchpad. 

 It integrated seamlessly with my application that already utilizes the django.auth module. 

 https://launchpad.net/django-openid-auth 

 To get a copy: 

 bzr branch lp:django-openid-auth
 
 #1 I prefer django-authopenid, but I think most of the mature solutions are pretty equal at this point. Still, it is what I see used the most. I've made a handful of customizations to how we use it without having to actually fork it, and that's a huge plus in my book. In other words, its fairly hookable. 
 #2 Don't forget Elf Sternberg's fork of django-socialauth - he's working to clean up what he sees as a lot of bad implementation decisions in the original socialauth app. Looks clean so far but it's unclear whether his project will have momentum. 
 #3 The last post for this thread is in February. It's been almost 8 months and I'm pretty sure a lot of things have been changed. 

 I am very interested in Django-Socialauth since it supports gmail, yahoo, facebook, twitter, and OpenID. 

 I found two forks that seem up-to-date: 

 https://github.com/uswaretech/Django-Socialauth 

 https://github.com/agiliq/Django-Socialauth 

 The second fork has been recently updated at this moment. 

 I was wondering if anyone has recently used any of these forks? I am looking for the most reliable one for my website. 

 Thanks 
 #4 django-socialauth is good for me 
 #5 You could try pinax