Question (ID-2729): What Hosting Service is best for Django applications? I have been using django a great deal lately and would like to find a home to host my apps. 

 What is the best django web host? ( Official django support preferred ) 

 Which service has the lowest price ( without a long contract )? Answers (Total-22): #0 I'm a huge fan of webfaction as well. They are not the cheapest hosts at $9.50 a month (if you are not prepaying for a year) but they have supported django for as long as it has been around, they support the stable and 1.0 alpha releases and they have a control panel app that allows you to setup in about two minutes. Have you checked out djangofriendly? There are quite a few reviews and recommendations for django hosts there. #1 Getting a slice from slicehost is probably your best bet. At $$20/mo they are more expensive than shared hosting plans but nothing beats root access on your own VPS. You can take your pick of whatever webserver, version of Django, and custom software that you want. 

 They also have a great AJAX-y web control panel and excellent support. You'll be amazed at the difference, especially if you're moving up from a terrible oversold shared hosting plan. #2 I use Linode who provide you with complete root access to your own machine, for a really quite small fee. Sure it's a bit more work than someone like webfaction, but in the long run I think the extra flexibility and security in knowing that other user's can't affect the performance of my system makes it worthwhile. 
 #3 I really, really like Webfaction and I think you'll find a lot of others that do too. 

 In my year with webfaction so far here are the positive things: 

 
 Great django support out of the box. They have support people familiar with django and ready to help you out at all times. It's easy to install release versions or to run off SVN Trunk since you have access to your own python site-packages directory. 
 Very reliable (0% downtime on my server [that I noticed, anyway)] 
 Amazing support on the forums 
 Willing to install custom software, etc. 
 SSH 
 Cheap! ($8.50/mo with 1 year pre-pay) 
 

 And the negatives: 

 
 Shared hosting means no root access :'( Only root on your folder) 
 Shared hosting means someone else can mess up my server processes 
 

 Those aren't really negatives specific to webfaction, though, so take them for what they're worth. 

 Overall I'm very happy with them. 
 #4 The lowest price one is probably Google Appengine. No contract to speak of and it's free. #5 @ Patrick : the big issue with hosting a Django app on Google App Engine is that GAE requires you to use BigTable for storage, and that isn't (and likely won't be) integrated with Django's ORM. So, if you're looking to do anything with the database side of things, you'll either have to write a fair amount of GAE-specific code, or it isn't for you. 
 #6 SliceHost is what I use. They set you up with a VPS (Virtual Private Server) that you have full control over. You can install all the software you need to run your websites how you want to. If you're handy with linux this is the best way to go, in my opinion. 

 The cheapest plan is $20/month, which, as of now, gives you 10GB of storage and 100GB monthly bandwidth. There are no contracts; you pay monthly. 

 p.s., I swear I don't work for SliceHost :) 
 #7 http://djangofriendly.com is a site that attempts to answer this question. They have a whole list of sites with some form of Django support, each ranked according to up/down vote total, and most with customer reviews. 

 When searching there, you can filter by the type of hosting you're looking for (shared vs dedicated vs VPS) or by price. 
 #8 Another cheer for Slicehost here. 

 Even if you do't use them as a host, they have some amazing public tutorials that help you set up the whole stack for a Django server: OS, web server(s), database, Django, etc. 
 #9 I'd recommend AlwaysData(.com).
They have free packet (with only 10mb of storage space, but... FREE), and great and responsive support. 
 #10 I've heard that http://rimuhosting.com/ are also excellent, but I have not used them personally. I know for a fact they support django. 
 #11 I used highspeedrails.com but found their support to be terrible. It's fast support, but tramples on your install and is very surly (one over-taxed support person). Webfaction sounds good. 
 #12 Another vote for webfaction. They seem to be heavily focused on Python and it was their starting point. Admin interface seems to be simple and easy to use. 
 #13 why not host in google app engine, django and python are mainly supported. and as far as I know it is free. 
 #14 In Europe, djangohosting.ch looks attractive. 
 #15 I recommend starting with Slicehost. Try setting up the servers yourself with the tutorial's help. If you messed up, just get delete your slice and start all over again. 
 #16 I use Webfaction and is great for me, but the official hosting provider for djangoproject is hosted @ django containers of mediatemple 
 #17 Please check Stackable out. We've worked hard to make a Django specific environment that scales horizontally and vertically. Disclosure - I own the company. 
 #18 I am using webfaction and it is great shared hosting, not just for django, but for all things that are hosted on LAMP, an it isn't expensive. 
 #19 you can also try www.swarmhost.net I have a bigger box with them, however they have vps starting at about $8 with 512 mb ram. unbeatable price with all the root access you get. Also they are planing to introduce django hosting specialized for starters at about $3. 
 #20 I don't know about this application, but for sure you can go for hosting services provided by Real Time data services. They claim to provide application hosting service on each and every application. 

 They do charge a very nominal amount. 

 They charge on per month basis and you can leave the services as the month gets over. 

 May be this link help you:-
 http://www.myrealdata.com/application-hosting.html 
 #21 Following in the footsteps of Heroku (for Ruby), there appear to be a new generation of cloud-based PAAS (Platform As A Service) providers, which are seeking business from the Django universe. Each appears to be somewhat unique, but are aiming at the same basic idea: quick deployment and full django support. 

 Here are some of the one's I've heard about (mostly at DjangoCon 2011)
 ep.io 
 gondor.io 
 dotcloud 
 djangozoom 
 apphosted